---
superTitle: Children's Story
title: Asimov
description:
  A robot from another planet is making contact with a boy on earth and asking
  for his help.
colorSpace: wood
language: en
ref: storylines/asimov-de
unfinished: true
start: 2022-12-25
end: 2023-10-15
related:
  - storylines/kamina-2
  - storylines/the-guillorys
tags:
  - Robot
  - SciFi
  - For Children
---

About a month ago Peter turned eleven. It was an amazing day. He got a lot of
tech gadgets. That was his passion these days. The coolest present was from his
father, a digital pad where he could learn programming. He practices with it
ever since. He even could plug in a little Lego robot and remote control it.

Peter is very independent. Sometimes, his parents even leave him alone while
doing errands. Today was such a day. He had two hours of robot craft. But some
days ago, his father showed him something even more fascinating in the garage,
an old radio system.

The dusty device looked so different from today's technology. Probably that is
what excited him. At the moment even more than his talking DIY robot project.

He went downstairs and entered the small workshop next to the garage. There it
stood, the device, that looked like a robot itself with all its switches,
cables, and speakers. But it was turned off.

---

Peter was hesitant as he approached the radio device. It was his guilty
conscience speaking, but there also was a little devil sitting on his other
shoulder, curiosity. So he turned on the old chrome switch on the left.

The lights on the strange displays turned on and a loud white noise came out of
the speakers. Peter fell into panic. Quickly he searched for the volume knob,
finally found it and reduced the volume. Puh, that was close.

But then, after a thorough look at all the buttons and switches, he remembered
what his father showed him the other day. With the one on the right, you adjust
the wavelength - yes, that was the word - to find channels where people were
chatting.

Firstly, Peter memorized the current wavelength to be able to turn it back in
the end, 27.335. Then he started to search for channels.

On one of them, he heard someone talking, who sounded like his neighbour, Mr
White. He spoke to his baby son Josua. That was strange, so he kept listening
for a while.

---

Peter listened to their neighbour for another while. He remembered that his
father said that some baby phones were also using radio signals. But the sound
was very noisy. So he turned the knob again until he heard a loud, jarring feep
on channel 14. He panicked again a bit, but he found the knob to turn the volume
down.

"Ben? Hello? Is it you?", he received from the speaker. Ben was his father's
name so Peter became curious. What should he do? Answer? His index finger was
already lying on the button of the desk microphone.

"Heee-lloo?", came it out of the radio again. And Peter pushed the button.

"Hi", he said with a tiny, cautious voice. "It's Peter. Who are you?"

"Oh-h, hello Pe-eeee-ter." The sound was still disrupted by noise from time to
time. "My name is Asimo-ov. You are Ben's son, aren't yo-ou?"

"Yes. Do you know my father?" Without thinking too much about the consequences,
Peter started talking to that stranger. His curiosity was stronger.

---

"Oh, how lo-ovely", answered the calm and friendly voice from the speaker.
"Finally, I ge-eet to know Ben'szs son. As I said, I am Asimov. And, you won't
believfffe it, I'm a robot from the bea-uuutiful asteroid Flora".

Asimov was hard to understand. The background noises were annoying, but Peter
understood very well, although he couldn't believe what he had heard.

"Boah, really?", he asked with amazement. "A real robot? Where do you come from?
What is asteroid?"

"An as-zsss-teroid is a very small planet. I'm circling the sun just like you.
Ben told me, that you are szsuch a cuu-urious child. You know about planetszs?"

"Boah", said Peter again, "then you're not even from Earth. You are an alien
robot? How cool."

Peter got more and more excited and the chat went on for several minutes but he
also had a guilty conscience.

"I have to stop now", he finally said. "I'm not even allowed to be here. My
parents are back soon."

"All right", returned Asimov. "But I have something for you."

---

"My Sensors", said the Robot with the background noise of the radio, "they show
that you have a device with-sss you. Is that true?"

Peter had to think for a moment. This voice said it was a robot from another
planet, but it could also be a lie. But what could happen on his own pad? "Yes,
my pad", he finally said.

"Great", answered Asimov, "now have a look at your home screen. You will find a
new icon."

Peter opened the device and saw it. "Wait, what? How did you do that? What does
it do?"

"I can communicate with machines. After all, I'm one of them myself. This app is
connected to a small flying camera over here. You can see me and talk to me face
to robot face. And you can even fly around on Flora."

"Really?" answered Peter incredulously. He had to try it out immediately. He
started the app and saw video footage-blurred and wiggly at first. But after it
stabilised, there was a clear picture. He looked into friendly eyes on a display
in a robot's face.

---

"Hello again, Peter", said the Robot - this time with a crystal clear voice.
"It's me again, Asimov. Good to see you. It's always better to have a picture,
isn't it? Look around, welcome to Flora."

Peter was in the most astonished and curious mood he had ever been since this
whole adventure started. But this was the best. He looked into his pad and saw a
new world on another planet, well asteroid.

He could use the controls on the display to look around just like in a video
game. He saw green grass on the floor, bright as the day. But the sky was as
dark as the night. And there was a hut or a small house. That was surely Asimovs
home.

And look at that. Peter found the button to zoom in and could see some details.
Dozends of working machines. Robots of all sorts. Some carried things, some
digged holes, others planted flowers.

"Yor pad is now permanently connected to Flora", said Asimov in a calm voice. "I
have reserved you a drone camera. So you can travel around wherever you want."

---

Peter couldn't think of anything else than the Asteroid Flora. He sat together
with his parents at the dinner table, but he wasn't even hungry. His mother
asked a question and he didn't even notice. He couldn't wait to get back and
start the app. Luckily, his mother sent him to his room.

He unlocked the pad immediately. Now he could take a closer look at the alien
world. At first, nobody seemed to be there, so he started flying around and
discovering the surroundings.

The first astonishing thing he saw was, he zoomed in to be really sure, yes, it
was a floor lamp like the one in his granny's house. But this one moved around.
It was also a robot.

"Hello", the lamp said suddenly. "You must be Peter. Nice to meet you. I'm
Tiffany."

He got chatting with Tiffany the lamp. And while they talked, others came along
as well. There was Cuthbert the cupboard and not to forget Arne, the chair.

Peter talked with them for half an hour until his mother knocked and came in. So
he quickly had to switch off the pad and hide it under his blanket.

---

In the following days, Peter thought a lot about the robots on Flora. How did
that work? Were they alive or just toys and devices? He didn't even understand
the difference. On the next day, he met Asimov and asked him.

"Ah boy, you ask the right questions. You have a curious mind. Others take much
longer to come up with this question", said Asimov and Peter thought about who
these others were. But that was another puzzle.

"For the answer, I will show you two things. Here's number one. Look", Asimov
continued while showing Peter his left robot arm. A small plug came out with a
soft electric noise. "This is my activation interface. That's what I call it. I
can connect with everything through this and spread intelligence and mechanics.
Everything that I touch with it will become a robot like your friends Tiffany,
Cuthbert and Arne".

He took a stone with his right hand and touched it for a while with the plug in
his left hand. Then the stone transformed. First, it formed eyes.

---

Then something happened. While the stone in Asimov's hand continued transforming
into a robot and before he could show Peter his second trick, Asimov noticed
something going on in the background that alerted him. He turned around and also
Peter saw it when he zoomed out on his pad viewer. The large buildings in the
background that stood on either side of the crater rim started to move.

Asimov and his friends lived in a place that was guarded by high mountain
ranges. One day, Asimov had explained that they were inside a crater and that
things were green here but grey and brown on the outside. And there were two
large buildings besides the hut. One looked like a fortress, dark and angry. The
other one was a castle, large and white with many small crenelations and fine
architecture.

What Peter saw in his pad was that the fortress seemed to stand up. He had to
look twice. The building moved and seemed to spit small portions of fire toward
the castle. These gigantic houses were fighting.

---

"Oh dear," said Asimov. He seemed calm, prepared, and alert at the same time, as
if he had expected something like that to happen.

"Well, Peter," he continued, pointing at the fortress. "And that is the big
version of the trick. A long time ago, I turned it into a robot. But it didn't
work out that well, as you can see. From time to time, it gets angry. Sorry,
pal, I have to leave you alone to look after this situation."

Peter was stunned once again. He had learned so much about Flora and its
inhabitants in the last few weeks, but there was always a bigger surprise around
the corner. The fortress was a huge robot, but Peter was sure that the castle
was another one. He could swear that he also saw this beautiful building move
some of its towers and roofs to dodge the little fire bombs from the fortress.

He steered his drone around a little bit and flew higher for a better overview.
The castle still looked angry, but Asimov was already on his way. Peter saw him
on the road, almost there.

Now the two biggest windows of the castle, which looked like eyes, spotted
Asimov, and it immediately stopped spitting fire.

For now, the situation seemed to be calmed down, and Peter could take a deep
breath.

---

On the next day, Asimov approached Peter.

"Hello, Peter!" He waved at him as he rolled in the direction of Peter's drone.
"I think, I still owe you the second skill that I wanted to show you, remember?"

"Hi Asimov, yes, I almost forgot. So much happened yesterday. I hope everything
is alright?" "Yes, that happens sometimes. And actually what I want to show you
is directly connected to that little conflict."

"It didn't seem so little to me. But I'm curious about what you want to show
me."

"Ok, it's much harder to explain because you don't see it as clearly as the
robot trick. Well, you may already have wondered what I have in my right hand.
The activation interface that I showed you on the left could turn things into a
robot. Look here, it's Grumpy, the stone robot that we created yesterday." Peter
made a shaking move through his drone and the little bouncing robot answered
with a funny sound to greet back.

"Now here's my right arm", Asimov continued and showed Peter how another device
similar to the plug on the left came out of its hand. "I call this one the
animation interface. It can give consciousness to a robot."

"Consciousness?", asked Peter. "We've talked about this at school and later that
day in the evening I also asked Dad, but I didn't really understand it, to be
honest."

"Well, that's because it's probably the most complicated thing I know. Humans
like you have it, and some animals as well. But robots usually don't. A simple
definition would be that you know who and what you are. But that is so much
simpler than reality."

"And you can give consciousness to other robots?"

"Yes, Peter. That is what the animation interface does. Unfortunately, this
skill is very sensitive. In the past, here on Flora, we had some unpleasant
events, so I can't show it to you at the moment. But we can continue talking
tomorrow if you like. Probably in the meantime, you want to find out more about
consciousness yourself."

As usual, Asimov seemed to know what was going on in Peter's life. As he looked
at the watch on his pad, he saw that his parents would be home soon, so he
logged out for the moment. He just had some seconds to think about what he had
learned today before he heard his parents coming through the entrance door.

But Peter couldn't stop thinking about consciousness. He had heard the word
before and now he started researching the topic on his pad. He found a lot of
information, but it was hard to understand. He read about the brain and how it
worked. He read about the mind and how it was different from the brain. He read
about the soul and how it was different from the mind. And he read about
consciousness and how it was different from the soul.

But nothing really made sense, all was so abstract and so he decided to ask
Asimov again. Probably it was easier to understand with a good example. And
Asimov had talked about unpleasant events in the past. Maybe he could tell him
more about that.

On the next day, Peter was excited to talk to Asimov again. He started the app
and after a while, he found Asimov rolling around in the garden. He was watering
the flowers.

"Oh, Hello again, Peter my friend", said Asimov. "How is your morning? It's
beautiful today, isn't it?"

"But isn't every day the same here on Flora?", asked Peter.

"No, no, there are subtle differences. The sun is shining a little bit brighter
today. Perfect for some gardening."

"Sorry, Asimov, I don't want to disturb you. I just wanted to ask you about
consciousness. It bothered me all night."

"Come on, go ahead. I'm happy to help if I can ..."

"You said that you can give consciousness to other robots. But you also said
that it causes trouble sometimes. So probably you can give me an example?"

"Well, Peter, to be honest with you, consciousness is hard to explain even with
example. But probably I can help you find out more with a real experience. I
could use some help myself with the Castle and the Fortress. So you can help me
and find some answers along the way, what do you think?"

They rolled and flew to a nice place in the big garden and sat down in the
middle of a field of sunflowers. Then Asimov started to explain.

---

"Ok, Peter," he said, "Let me start with my story. It was many, many years ago,
long before you were born, when I had a fantastic idea, at least at that time, I
thought it was fantastic. I used my left arm on the castle, mu activation
interface, you remember?"

Peter nodded and Asimov continued to talk. "So the castle became a robot. It
could even move around. It still can, but I assume, it's too lazy, I mean it's
made of stone so it must be a lot of work. And I think it likes its place.
Anyway. It was very promising, because it helped me with every task from then
on. At that point, I was still living in the castle and I could say bring me to
my bedroom and a second later I was there. It was great."

"Ahh", said Peter, "It was like an elevator."

"Yes. And it was so much more. It cleaned itself for example. All the dirt and
dust was a problem of the past. And it took over many more things.

So I thought, why not do the same with the fortress. And so I did the same with
that grumpy old pile of stone. Sorry, that was just a joke."

"I understood it", said Peter and smiled. He was aware that something went wrong
with the fortress and now he was curious to hear what.

"Good, very good Peter, because it really was not the fortress' fault.

Well, at that time everything was still fine. Also in the fortress, everything
was automated immediately. That was very helpful for all the robots around here,
who lived over there at that time.

I thought it had worked out so nicely that I wanted to go one step further. I
wanted the castle to live. So I gave it consciousness. I used my right arm on
it, the animation interface, you remember? And it worked. The castle was alive.
It could think and feel. It was a great success. I could talk to it. We had many
great discussions."

"Wait a minute", interrupted Peter. "You mean you lived inside a living being?
And how did you talk to it? Were you just in a room and talked to the walls?"

"Yes. Exactly. So you can imagine that it also was a bit awkward. I didn't think
of it before. I had no private moment any more. So I finally moved out and built
my little hut over here.

After a while, a year or so, I saw that robots moved out. They stayed outside
overnight and started to avoid the castle", continued Asimov his story. Peter
listened eagerly. He wanted to know what was going on. "Over time, more and more
followed. They just rested on the fields over here. So after a while the field
was completely full of robots over night, while the fortress, the designated
home of the robots was empty."

"Did you find out why they did this?", asked Peter.

"Yes. They told me. The fortress was angry they said. It would not give them
energy any more and even damaged some of their circuits. I could not believe
what I've heard, Peter. After all, it was the castle that was alive and the
fortress was still robotic.

I had to try it out myself. So I started sleeping in the fortress for some
nights. I wanted to make closer contact."

"But, but", started Peter, "you said it was dangerous. Haven't you been afraid
that the fortress could do you harm?"

"Well I was. A little bit. But you have to know that I can't take things back.
As soon as objects become robots or robots become alive, I can't undo it. It's
settled. They stay until they break or die. So if I didn't find out what was
going on, I would have to destroy the fortress. it was the only chance to save
it. But I had help."

"Did the castle help you?", asked Peter.

"No, no, that's nothing the castle would do and after all, it was also a part of
the problem. So that wouldn't help. I had a friend from your planet. You know,
from time to time, I have visitors just like you. And at the time of the grand
crisis I also had support."

"So there was someone like me flying around with a drone?", asked Peter.

"Yeah, sort of. Well the drone was a little rolling vehicle at that time, but
other than that this human has made the same experience as you. He was curious.
I just seem to have forgotten his name. Well, never mind. It's not important for
the story."

While Peter was thinking, how such an advanced creature like Asimov could forget
anything, the door of his room at home opened. He winced and the pad that he
used to talk to Asimov fell to the ground. He quickly picked it up and turned it
off.

"Time to sleep, precious", said his mother looking through the door. "Clean your
teeth and then off to bed."

---

Peter was thinking about Asimov's story during the next day in the morning and
at school. He was curious to hear the rest. He had questions. He was doing his
homework quicker and less concentrated than usual on that day, because he was
eagerly awaiting the moment when he could turn on the pad again.

"I'm finished", he said to his mother. "Can I go to my room and play with my
pad?"

"OK, but only for half an hour. You sit in front of that screen for too long.",
answered his mother.

"Fine", said Peter wit a slightly sad tone and quickly ran upstairs. He turned
on the pad and started the app.

"Peter, Peter, there you are", greeted Asimov who seemed to have been in a
hurry. "Quick, you have to help me with the fortress."

"What's going on?", asked Peter.

"It's the same as always, Peter. But now it seems to happen more often. The
fortress is mad at the castle and spits fire at it. The castle is unimpressed,
but I'm afraid for the robots who do their work in that area. They might be in
danger."

"But how could I help? I don't even know what's going on."

"Time to meet the castle, I think. I will take you there. And then I'll take
over the angry fortress for now."

It took about ten minutes until Peter's drone and Asimov reached the castle's
draw bridge.

"Good luck", said Asimov hastily. "I'm driving to the castle now. Just fly over
the walls and say hello. I hope I'll come back soon."

"But what about the fire?", asked Peter. But Asimov was already gone. But he was
not really afraid. Asimov could probably replace the drone easily, if it got
damaged.

So Peter poked around a bit, flew to the right and to the left around the thick
stone walls behind the castle moat. Nothing to see. He didn't get the least hint
of anything alive, just massive stone.

He finally gained a bit of height and steered the dron over the big arc with the
entrance gate. To the left and the right there were beautiful watchtowers. He
also passed them and finally saw the square and the garden area in front of the
beautiful palace. The garden had black dots. That must have been the impact
craters of the little firebombs from the fortress. But there were still gardener
robots, that worked on restoring the lawn and the flower beds.
