---
superTitle: Elements, Part 2
title: Water
description:
  The journey continues with a boat trip and a visit of the dystopian
  catastrophe site.
colorSpace: sky
hidden: true
startDate: 2022-09-20
date: 2023-12-15
tags:
  - Roadtrip
  - Fantasy
  - Hell
  - Demons
  - Dystopia
  - Cataclysm
  - Hamburg
  - London
related:
  - storylines/elements-earth
---

## Water

After the arrival, they could spend a nice evening with some new faces after all
these years and went to work on the next day. Ruth obviiously took over. It
turned out that she was a software engineer before the incident. She knew
everything about computers and the system they had in Hamburg was a bliss as
soon as she sat in front of it rather than triggering some remote commands.

After some minutes, they had proper footage from a set of weather satellites.
The reslolution was amazing. They could zoom down and even see trees. After half
an hour, Ruth found out how to move the satellites into new positions. She sent
the commands. Now they had to wait.

---

The expedition crew sat in the small tech room with the running computer along
with three of their hosts from Hamburg. The satellite move was almost done. In
the meantime, Ruth could have a look at some of the other systems in that room
and connect a large monitor. Cinema time.

There was even a light mood in the air, a vague memory from the time before the
incidents. Then Ruth moved the satellite footage to the big screen. It was
unsharp, so she sent some commands. After a while, the camera focused and you
could see the view of greater London.

Well, not entirely. The whole western area, Hammersmith, Shepherd's Bush,
Fulham, Kensington and half of Hyde Park formed a huge lake fed by the Thames.
That's where the bomb had been detonated. Everyone fell silent.

"Do you see that shadow in the centre of the lake?", said the Theologist
finally. "Can you zoom in?"

Ruth adjusted the footage and there they were. Thousands of undefined creatures
stream out of a void like ants.

---

Ruth worked on the footage, zoomed in and out and started to print maps and
aerial pictures of the current situation. She managed to focus the satellite
optics properly and received high-res images from demons with horns and hoofs.

Later on, they sat together in the dining area to take decisions.

"We have friends near Boulogne", said Paul, one of the Hamburg residents. "They
maintain the harbour and a small airfield over there."

"Sounds good", responded Ruben, "we could get better footage."

"Yes", approved Ruth. "Do you think, you could contact them? I believe, we need
to get nearer to the hive."

"We can try to make contact. The last time, we spoke to them, they still
maintained two aeroplanes. I'm sure they would help us."

It took another two days to make radio contact. The planes were still active and
they could reach the London area. But there were sightings of demons on the
French coast as well.

They had to hurry. So on the next day, they set sail to Boulogne-sur-mer.

---

During the passage from Hamburg to Boulogne, Siobhan controlled the mics and was
in permanent exchange with Juliette and the other comms in Dublin. It turned out
that Siobhan knew their new guests already. They had been in contact before. The
radio community in Europe was small these days. After a day at sea, Siobhan and
Paul managed to make contact with Pierre.

So the company had another warm welcome when they arrived on the coast of
Northern France, probably the last wave of appreciation for a long time. Also,
Pierre and his crew had prepared one of the planes already and offered himself
as a pilot.

The plan was to get as near as possible to the crater. shoot photos and videos
and prepare for further steps. It seemed to become a habit to come together in a
cosy round for dinner before leaving. So also here in their third stop, they had
a nice evening before diving into yet another adventure.

On the next day, the plane to London was ready for the lift-off.

---

Besides Ruth and Pierre, who jumped in as the pilot, nobody had been flying
before. The Theologist would have been old enough, but at a younger age, he was
too afraid. Today, he still had some respect and he talked all the time. But
also the others had a paler skin tone than normal while sitting in the little
Cessna machine.

After the lift-off, the Theologist puked. Everything else went well. The first
view was breathtaking. The flight was supposed to take an hour. It was an hour
of almost total silence.

They were high up in the air when they saw the gigantic lake in London's east.
From that height, Ruth couldn't grasp much detail, but the cameras on the plane
worked well. Pierre steered the machine down to take recordings as detailed as
possible.

None of the buildings was intact as they flew over Covent Garden and Soho to
approach the shore of the lake, which looked even bigger from a height of 100 m.
Ruth knew that London was destroyed. But seeing this is a different thing.

---

A quarter of an hour later, they were flying over the crater lake. Water was
everywhere, but here and there some of the ruins of large, flooded buildings
stood out of the water's surface. And then also these could not be seen anymore.
The crater lake was deepening towards the centre.

What Ruth also saw on the monitor was a current. Water was flowing towards the
centre of the lake. That's where the vortex was.

"There", the Theologist shouted, pointing his hand towards the front windscreen
of the plane. What was that? An object or several ones. Land. Now Ruth was sure
it was a landmass. There were islands in the middle of the crater. They must
have been placed right in front of the vortex.

Ruth quickly pointed the outside camera to this place to get clearer footage and
followed its focus as they moved along.

"Purgatory Island", coined the Theologist its name. "The last stop before hell.
That must be the place where the demons are stranding."

---

As the plane came nearer to the Purgatory Islands, they got a clearer view. The
islands were not at all contaminated with demons as the crew had expected. They
looked peaceful. There were dwellings on the eastern coast, beautifully
architectured houses arranged around terraces and squares.

Some kilometers later, Ruth saw the vortex in detail, the demons that fought to
get out and the blackness below.

Back in France, they took the whole evening to find out what to do next. Could
this invasion be stopped? Were they doomed? They, humanity? The group had to do
something against it. The Theologist and Ruben came out with it almost at the
same time.

"We should take the boat", they said. The coincidence of saying it together made
it a bit less awkward. What they suggested was a Kamikaze journey, an Orphean
trip right into the mouth of hell.

On that day, they didn't dare to talk to the Dublin headquarters. That could
wait until the next morning.
