---
superTitle: Road Trip
title: Elements
description: A dystopian journey to hell and elysium and back.
colorSpace: lime
startDate: 2022-09-20
date: 2023-10-01
tags:
  - Roadtrip
  - Fantasy
  - Hell
  - Demons
  - Angels
  - Dystopia
---

> There are quite some storylines flying around on this account and I'm excited
> to start another today.
>
> Some years ago, I started a novel, a post-apocalyptic dystopia with mixed-in
> religious and fantastic elements. Namely demons and devils. But not so much in
> the religious way.
>
> I called it "Elements", because it was planned as a road trip from land
> through water, into the fire and back through the air. It starts with a
> deserted Europe where only a few people have survived and the shores have
> massively changed through bombs and nature taking back what belongs to her.
> And it's also a classic symbolic fight - science against evil.
>
> At that time I neither had the stamina for a whole novel nor was the story
> rich enough. A better opportunity was supposed to come later.
>
> But that story surely still makes a beautiful tale told in short blocks of a
> thousand characters at a time. So during the next weeks, I'll dive into hell
> and back again.
>
> Hope you'll enjoy.

## Earth

Almost nobody in Juliettes clan remembers the time before the war and the
stories of the few remaining old people in the group sound like science fiction
every time they start telling them.

Juliette was 28. She was born three years before the entire world got wiped
out - by a virus, the elder said. But they don't know for sure or they don't
want to talk about it.

Her clan, the O'Clares are moving from town to town in Ireland to clean up, bury
the dead and live from the rich leftovers throughout the country. The clan
consists of sixty persons - many of them around her age. Five of the women,
however, were extremely valuable to the clan and the few remaining humans in the
whole world. They were pregnant. Juliette was one of them.

On the island, there are only some families in the north and a small community
around Trinity College in Dublin left. Overall not more than 1.800 Irish that
have survived. Finally united.

---

Trinity College was one of the few remaining strongholds of civilisation. In
other regions they knew of, Ireland, England and Northern France, only a handful
of people were left. But here amongst the old walls of the campus, a stable
population of 1.000 people from baker to scholar had survived and organised a
decent life.

The big advantage of the community is that knowledge has survived. Practical
physics and technology were much needed these days next to classic crafts. They
are running a 24x7 radio station and a long range radio communication facility.

One of the recent experiments is to reconnect to one of the imaging satellites
that still circle earth to get a better understanding of what had happened. It's
been 25 years now since the war wiped out the world. They have an idea of those
events back then. But they still don't know much about the rest of the world.
Are they stranded on a lonely island or are they the rest of the civilisation?

---

"What's the matter with you, Ruben?", she said angrily. "Another animal? You
know that we don't have the resources to feed animals."

Ruben and his gang were strong and formed an effective force in the defence
strategies of the clan. They were the police if you will. Nonetheless, they
ranked below Juliette in the natural hierarchy of the clan. She was the secret
boss of the pack. That's what everyone thought.

Ruben was the first to overcome his perplexity.

"No animal. It's a demon. Look at it!"

Juliette approached cautiously and had a glance through the small slot on the
side of the cage. She saw a red eye staring at her from the inside and above
that, an ugly, rounded horn came out of its forehead. It smelled her with a
deranged nose and moved swiftly towards the slot. Juliette was startled and
recoiled a step or two. Afraid of the light coming through, the creature crept
away out of sight.

"What kind of prank is this?", she asked.

---

Juliette always refers to them as the elder, but Ruth and Paul, the clan's
official leaders are not actually wise. They have a lot of street knowledge
though. And they brought the O'Clares through hard times and made everyone keep
their faith.

Now the clan's thought leaders were sitting in a circle around that box that was
shaking from time to time with the movement of the demon inside. There was
Juliette of course, the two elders, Ruben and his friend Thom, who caught the
thing, and others. Overall eight people discussed for a whole hour what to do
now.

"We have to bring him to the scholars", Ruben said finally. And he was right as
always in such moments when decisions were needed.

The group, however, discussed five more minutes around the obvious until Ruth
stood up and said. "Aye then, let's finally meet those dusty bastards again."

Next stop: Dublin, Juliette thought. And she somehow liked that thought.

---

"There's someone coming", screamed the first guard on duty to the others in the
patrolling squad. Immediately, everybody was alert and his colleague with the
radio forwarded the news to the guards' headquarters in the college.

Trinity was a closed area. The scholars have organized patrols that permanently
scanned the streets between the Liffey and St. Stephens Green. But these days it
was a boring job. They had collected most of the stray groups years ago and the
few remaining factions usually stayed out of the greater Dublin area.

But there came the horde. Every officer of the patrol knew the outside groups
and the bunch that was now moving eastward along Fleet Street was obviously the
southbound faction who called themselves the O'Clares.

"What are they doin' here?", the guard thought. "They hate us, don't they?"

Only minutes later, the leading guard in the college hastily entered the big
auditorium and delivered the message to the dean.

"All right, let them in", he answered.

---

"I have always been more of a scientist than a man of god. But sometimes these
topics fall together. This is the time we live in." The Theologist lectured in
front of his audience of about 40 people. It was memorial day ceremony, 25 years
after the outbreak. All lectures in Trinity College were history lessons of what
happened before and after the events.

But the Theologist gave it a twist. "We have seen demons", he said. "Yes, I know
what you will say. There's no proof. But we all have seen the footage and heard
the sounds over the wire, haven't we?"

At that moment, the door opened and a dramatic, divine ray of light fell into
the dimmed auditorium. Shadowy creatures entered carrying a large shrine. At
least that is what the Theologist thought at that moment.

Then someone, a woman, a pregnant woman stepped out of her silhouette and
approached the lectern, pushed the Theologist slightly but determinedly away and
proclaimed "We have proof!".

---

The auditorium had already been crowded before. Almost all residents of trinity
college were there. But now, after Juliette had entered the spacious stage area,
the other four dozen clan members streamed in and caused a noise and confusion
level the halls had not seen for 25 years.

Two of them pulled a small wagon with the box on it and drove it to the podium
area that was lit by a suitable dimmed but still bright enough spotlight.

The O'Clares slowly calmed down. They formed a semi-circle around the box. Only
Juliette, Ruth and Paul stood directly next to the dirty, wooden cube. Paul
opened some locks and fiddled with the fixing mechanism for a while like a
magician preparing his trick. The audience reacted with tensioning silence. The
scholars on one side and the wild bunch on the other.

Then the wooden walls folded down and cleared the view for a steel cage with a
small horned creature inside.

"We call him Scrooge", shouted Ruth into the round.

---

Afraid of everything, but especially the lights that pointed to him, the demon
called Scrooge started to move inside the cage. The whole audience cried out a
noise of shock before they fell completely silent again. Everyone stared at the
leprechaun with an open mouth.

Only minutes earlier, they had heard the lecture of an apparently mad theologist
fantasising about the opened gates of hell and other oddities. And now their
eyes told them that it was true. Demons are back in the world.

This one was only one meter tall. Well, 70 centimeters if you don't count the
gigantic horns. It didn't look too dangerous and itself was full of fear. But
after hearing the first wild stories from the O'Clares, the scholars knew that
there were hordes of them and they get stronger and more brave every day.

Something had to be done. Hell on earth was not acceptable.

---

The Comms, the scientists in the communication control center, knew that there
were still active satellites. The problem only was that they didn't have
contact. To be fair there was generally not much communication happening anymore
to justify their name. Except a once in a month call with some Germans.

But now, they had visitors. The dean, the theologist and Juliette and Ruth
O'Clare stood behind them at the desks with the wall of monitors. All off. Only
a small screen in the middle was turned on. The visitors had come up with the
ideas to get satellite footage.

"Let me try", said old Ruth and pushed one of the nerds out of his chair before
he even knew what happened.

She opened a terminal, typed some commands and mumbled some magic spells or
curses along the way. "WTF" was among the abbreviations she used.

A cracking came out of one of the speakers. And then a voice. "Dublin?", it said
from remote, "What did you do? We have a signal from a satellite."

---

The scientists were more pragmatic than Juliette had thought. They had put her
on the lead of the org team. The Dubliners and the O'Clares planned an
expedition together. They had to do fieldwork. The first destination was
Hamburg, where the other crew with the connection to the satellites lived.

Juliette herself, pregnant, seventh month, could not go. But she put a
formidable crew together. The main reason why Ruth was not in the lead was that
she clearly had to be part of the crew. She was number one. Ruben and David
O'Clare were in there as well. Siobhan from the Comms and Hannah, an
experimental Physicist had also been chosen by Juliette.

And then there was the Theologist, Rory Spencer, who volunteered. At age 59 he
was the oldest. But strategically, his knowledge could be of use.

Juliette was satisfied with her arrangements. She ordered some days of
preparation and training and chhose her office next to the Comms at Trinity. The
party was ready to set out.

---

They had chosen a small, well-maintained and quite comfortable passagemaker
yacht from the harbour in Dublin. Two of the scientists had been nautic
hobbyists and valid captains and joined them on their trip to Hamburg. It took
them three days. During that time they had permanent radio contact with the
Dublin HQ, Juliette and with Hamburg.

After the arrival, they could spend a nice evening with some new faces after all
these years and went to work on the next day. Ruth obviiously took over. It
turned out that she was a software engineer before the incident. She knew
everything about computers and the system they had in Hamburg was a bliss as
soon as she sat in front of it rather than triggering some remote commands.

After some minutes, they had proper footage from a set of weather satellites.
The reslolution was amazing. They could zoom down and even see trees. After half
an hour, Ruth found out how to move the satellites into new positions. She sent
the commands. Now they had to wait.

---

The expedition crew sat in the small tech room with the running computer along
with three of their hosts from Hamburg. The satellite move was almost done. In
the meantime, Ruth could have a look at some of the other systems in that room
and connect a large monitor. Cinema time.

There was even a light mood in the air, a vague memory from the time before the
incidents. Then Ruth moved the satellite footage to the big screen. It was
unsharp, so she sent some commands. After a while, the camera focused and you
could see the view of greater London.

Well, not entirely. The whole western area, Hammersmith, Shepherd's Bush,
Fulham, Kensington and half of Hyde Park formed a huge lake fed by the Thames.
That's where the bomb had been detonated. Everyone fell silent.

"Do you see that shadow in the centre of the lake?", said the Theologist
finally. "Can you zoom in?"

Ruth adjusted the footage and there they were. Thousands of undefined creatures
stream out of a void like ants.

---

Ruth worked on the footage, zoomed in and out and started to print maps and
aerial pictures of the current situation. She managed to focus the satellite
optics properly and received high-res images from demons with horns and hoofs.

Later on, they sat together in the dining area to take decisions.

"We have friends near Boulogne", said Paul, one of the Hamburg residents. "They
maintain the harbour and a small airfield over there."

"Sounds good", responded Ruben, "we could get better footage."

"Yes", approved Ruth. "Do you think, you could contact them? I believe, we need
to get nearer to the hive."

"We can try to make contact. The last time, we spoke to them, they still
maintained two aeroplanes. I'm sure they would help us."

It took another two days to make radio contact. The planes were still active and
they could reach the London area. But there were sightings of demons on the
French coast as well.

They had to hurry. So on the next day, they set sail to Boulogne-sur-mer.

---

## Water

During the passage from Hamburg to Boulogne, Siobhan controlled the mics and was
in permanent exchange with Juliette and the other comms in Dublin. It turned out
that Siobhan knew their new guests already. They had been in contact before. The
radio community in Europe was small these days. After a day at sea, Siobhan and
Paul managed to make contact with Pierre.

So the company had another warm welcome when they arrived on the coast of
Northern France, probably the last wave of appreciation for a long time. Also,
Pierre and his crew had prepared one of the planes already and offered himself
as a pilot.

The plan was to get as near as possible to the crater. shoot photos and videos
and prepare for further steps. It seemed to become a habit to come together in a
cosy round for dinner before leaving. So also here in their third stop, they had
a nice evening before diving into yet another adventure.

On the next day, the plane to London was ready for the lift-off.

---

Besides Ruth and Pierre, who jumped in as the pilot, nobody had been flying
before. The Theologist would have been old enough, but at a younger age, he was
too afraid. Today, he still had some respect and he talked all the time. But
also the others had a paler skin tone than normal while sitting in the little
Cessna machine.

After the lift-off, the Theologist puked. Everything else went well. The first
view was breathtaking. The flight was supposed to take an hour. It was an hour
of almost total silence.

They were high up in the air when they saw the gigantic lake in London's east.
From that height, Ruth couldn't grasp much detail, but the cameras on the plane
worked well. Pierre steered the machine down to take recordings as detailed as
possible.

None of the buildings was intact as they flew over Covent Garden and Soho to
approach the shore of the lake, which looked even bigger from a height of 100 m.
Ruth knew that London was destroyed. But seeing this is a different thing.

---

A quarter of an hour later, they were flying over the crater lake. Water was
everywhere, but here and there some of the ruins of large, flooded buildings
stood out of the water's surface. And then also these could not be seen anymore.
The crater lake was deepening towards the centre.

What Ruth also saw on the monitor was a current. Water was flowing towards the
centre of the lake. That's where the vortex was.

"There", the Theologist shouted, pointing his hand towards the front windscreen
of the plane. What was that? An object or several ones. Land. Now Ruth was sure
it was a landmass. There were islands in the middle of the crater. They must
have been placed right in front of the vortex.

Ruth quickly pointed the outside camera to this place to get clearer footage and
followed its focus as they moved along.

"Purgatory Island", coined the Theologist its name. "The last stop before hell.
That must be the place where the demons are stranding."

---

As the plane came nearer to the Purgatory Islands, they got a clearer view. The
islands were not at all contaminated with demons as the crew had expected. They
looked peaceful. There were dwellings on the eastern coast, beautifully
architectured houses arranged around terraces and squares.

Some kilometers later, Ruth saw the vortex in detail, the demons that fought to
get out and the blackness below.

Back in France, they took the whole evening to find out what to do next. Could
this invasion be stopped? Were they doomed? They, humanity? The group had to do
something against it. The Theologist and Ruben came out with it almost at the
same time.

"We should take the boat", they said. The coincidence of saying it together made
it a bit less awkward. What they suggested was a Kamikaze journey, an Orphean
trip right into the mouth of hell.

On that day, they didn't dare to talk to the Dublin headquarters. That could
wait until the next morning.

---

<!--
Barthel
Sephys
The Magister and the holy court
Vortex To Hell

## Fire

## Air
-->
