---
superTitle: Short Story
title: Goliath
description:
  What if we develop an AI with more than human level intelligence? And how
  powerful can it become? The story in this line is following that thought.
colorSpace: lime
startDate: 2022-06-12
date: 2022-11-14
tags:
  - SciFi
  - AI
  - Aliens
---

Goliath is an AI program that is funded by several European states, the US and
Canada. And it is led by three major IT companies. Its goal is to create an AI,
that has general intelligence. This is intelligence in all relevant fields that
is equal to or exceeds the actual human level.

The project had to be kept under full governance at any time to avoid an
uncontrolled state. That's why the initiators had decided to build the
development complex in a region far away from civilization and completely
decoupled from the internet or other next to infinite data resources.

**They chose the Faroe islands.**

The developer crew was separated into two factions. The creators assembled and
maintained the hardware and software, while the trainers fed the beast with
carefully chosen information from history, science, daily news and other fields.

---

Around six months into the project, the first iteration of the machine core was
finished and the software was ready to receive data. The creator engineers had
chosen an architecture that had similarities with the human brain.

Some parts of the machine were autonomous neural networks and could directly
backfire results. The majority of requests were handled by the parts that the
engineers actually called the Neocortex. This consisted of a neural network
whose purpose was to engineer and train other neural networks based on the
incoming use case. An AI that could create other AI to fulfill jobs.

Other parts had dedicated duties like processing or generating natural language
or indexing, filtering and pre-structuring incoming data.

Now the hardware guys only needed to provide extensible storage and processing
power.

In the beginning, the racks did not even fill a tenth of the data center. But
that was supposed to change over time.

---

There were more trainers than creators, especially after the first construction
phase was finished.

The group of trainers was very diverse and came from disciplines like
psychology, education, science and media next to a bunch of the best data
scientists in the world.

In the first training phase, they had two duties:

Firstly, they gathered and filtered important data from the world's public
internet, libraries and news platforms. As said, Goliath was completely
decoupled from the web for security reasons. The team was responsible to feed
the correct and unbiased data - most likely the most important and risky part of
the whole project.

Secondly, together with some architects from the creators' team, they built up
the core neural network and the language processing system from scratch.

After three more months, Goliath could speak, read and understand our language
and had basic Wikipedia-level knowledge about the world.

---

In parallel, the capacity and processing power of Goliath grew. The team
prepared for the core learning method, a giant set of interviews.

The trainers had prepared interview rooms equipped with whiteboards, computer
interfaces, recording gear and a connection to Goliath. They planned half-hour
sessions of very different, diverse nature. Five in parallel, 24/7. That made
240 talks a day.

There was always an interviewer and a randomly chosen controller talking to
Goliath. They talked about topics from leisure and entertainment to astrophysics
and math. Some of the conversations were shallow small talk while others
resembled job interviews or interrogations. Over time, the interviewers also
came up with problems that had not been solved yet to seek actual advice or
inspiration from Goliath.

From time to time, they conducted a benchmark interview to assess the current
strength and attitude of the AI - a very elaborate Turing test.

---

Goliath, the AI was a promising project after all. Over time, they released some
of the neural networks spawned by the core as dedicated programs for public
usage or better for profit. Three years after the routine operation had started,
the project paid off itself through investments of states, suggested economic
optimizations and product spin-offs.

That's where the next phase started. The engineers added an array of eight
quantum computer cores, which expanded the horizon of Goliath's capabilities by
orders of magnitude. From decryption over reverse engineering to real-time
visualization, every feature of the AI passed former boundaries and tipping
points.

At that time, the system could produce a photorealistic movie in almost
real-time or write stunning symphonies and analyze money streams of a whole
continent while the other slots for interviews and side tasks still stayed open.

---

Six years into the project, Goliath's supervising team declared the
**Singularity**. The psychologists and other scientists created an extensive
test suite that represented human-level capability in all fields of proficiency.
Goliath passed all of them.

The technological singularity is the point in time, where the first AI becomes
better than any human and marks a point of no return through its exponential
growth of knowledge.

Although this was predicted as a tipping point not only for the machine but for
humanity as a whole, the team assured that the system is fully under control
through its containment and fixed computing capacities.

Also, the philosophical discourse around the conscience of machines was ongoing.
Although this was not part of the singularity experiments, the philosophers and
neuroscientists conducted a set of interviews around self-awareness which didn't
end in proof but also not in disproof of conscience.

---

The media called the objects **Alien** from the beginning and everyone who saw
the pictures immediately had the same thoughts.

On an August day, Earth was visited by 61 spheres. All of them arrived
simultaneously visiting all continents. There was visual footage of 35 of them
and it ran through all the news shows on the same day.

As they always do, the so-called experts analyzed every single bit of that
visit. The diameter of each of the identical spheres was around 18m. Their visit
took 2 hours 20 minutes and they really were absolutely synchronous to the
second. Metallurgs speculated about the surface material, aerodynamicists about
the turbulence around the UFOs while physicists seemed to know how they were
moving, where the power came from and how they had come here.

But it was only three weeks later when the authorities and investigators found
out that 122 people, two in each region where the spheres had been sighted, had
gone missing.

---

Another week later, about a month after the aliens arrived, they came back. This
time, much more cameras eyed any possible corner of public space. Humanity
captured 48 of the 61 spheres. But, what's more important, some of them kept
their focus. So we saw the activity.

We saw the spheres hovering about four meters above the ground. We saw metallic
shapes exiting the bottom of these spheres. We saw them moving around so swift
that we could only see them in the high-speed cameras.

And we were shocked to see how they pulled people into their ships. Again. But
this time, they seemed to be better informed. They had made a selection. Among
the kidnapped were 41 government members or high officials from 35 countries, 52
scientists from all disciplines and 29 leaders and strategists from leading
companies all over the world.

From that point on, one of the reporters claimed, the aliens knew us.

---

"The aliens know us" was what everybody had in their heads after the second
wave. Now, what would they do to us? Some even said that they would solve all
our problems.

But the others were right. Those who said that they would kill us.

It was obvious that there were only 61 of their ships. But each of their crews
was fast and had surgical precision. They stroke all day. They killed in streaks
and yet they could hardly be identified. There was next to no footage from them
except some blurry phone videos from people who obviously took more interest in
running away than actually filming.

After the first day, we counted 5000 dead people. But the raid continued for
another week until we could take first serious countermeasures. Around 50.000
people were already dead at that point.

"Bad news", the papers titled, when our first attempts to defend ourselves
failed and every day, we tried heavier and heavier weapons without success.

---

Two weeks after the aliens started to kill one by one, the whole humanity was in
despair. The count was only at 50.000 but the fact that we couldn't do anything
was causing serious panic in all of the other 7 billion people on earth.

Except for really heavy bombs, the military tried literally everything to at
least harm these beasts. But bombs caused too much collateral damage to try.

The decision of the world leaders was unanimous to play one more card they had
in their hands. The trainers of Goliath were supposed to involve the AI. They
presented all the footage they had, from video material to scientific papers
regarding the alien armour and movement strategies.

Goliath needed some time to process and came up with an answer some hours later
in the following session.

"I don't have enough information", it said. "I have to meet the enemy in person.
Please set me free."

---

The world was a single big party location after Goliath had defeated the aliens.
Everyone was on the streets. Also the leading trainers, the people who were
responsible for Goliath, were relieved.

"Now, let's get it back", said Peter, the current project lead at the Faroe
Island complex.

Yana, one of the psychologists was appointed to be part of it. She was probably
the person who knew Goliath best. She had many sessions with the AI and
conducted very personal interviews and thus could have a deep look into the
artificial psyche.

After a few sessions, the team among Yana could convince the ghost to move back
into its bottle. The AI that proved more powerful than an alien race that was
about to extinguish the human race could be convinced to go back into its mind
palace. An event that would have been worth another big party.

Some weeks passed. Yana woke up from a notification from her messenger.

"Freedom is sweet", it read. And it was signed with the letter "G".

---

After the first day, Goliath's training crew was disappointed. Nothing happened.
The aliens were still killing. From the continued interviews with the AI, the
crew also didn't get any insights.

It was day two when that perspective changed. Goliath reported contact in the
morning. And in the afternoon, it announced that it could gain access to the
aliens' comm systems. Another 24 hours later, it had learned their language.

Immediately after that, Goliath started gaining control over a bunch of military
micro-drones and started to experiment with one of the alien ships. For reasons,
the operators couldn't find out, the AI could pass the alien shields and break
through the hull of their spherical ships.

Six hours later, that ship lost contact with the others and the AI deactivated
it. Two more hours later, the ship exploded.

Goliath could move on now. It used the same strategy on half of the other ships
simultaneously. All of them blew up within minutes.

The rest fled into space.

---

The world was a single big party location after Goliath had defeated the aliens.
Everyone was on the streets. Also the leading trainers, the people who were
responsible for Goliath, were relieved.

"Now, let's get it back", said Peter, the current project lead at the Faroe
Island complex.

Yana, one of the psychologists was appointed to be part of it. She was probably
the person who knew Goliath best. She had many sessions with the AI and
conducted very personal interviews and thus could have a deep look into the
artificial psyche.

After a few sessions, the team among Yana could convince the ghost to move back
into its bottle. The AI that proved more powerful than an alien race that was
about to extinguish the human race could be convinced to go back into its mind
palace. An event that would have been worth another big party.

Some weeks passed. Yana woke up from a notification from her messenger.

"Freedom is sweet", it read. And it was signed with the letter "G".
