---
superTitle: Children's Story
title: Kamina and the Water Spirits
description:
  Little Kamina is always drawn into phantastic adventures. This time she jumps
  into a steampunk world with a lot of surprises.
colorSpace: orange
language: en
ref: storylines/kamina-1-de
unfinished: true
hidden: true
startDate: 2019-10-15
date: 2023-09-23
related:
  - storylines/kamina-2
  - storylines/asimov
  - storylines/the-guillorys
tags:
  - Kamina
  - Fairytale
  - Fantasy
  - For Children
---

Kamina ran as fast as she could. She was furious. Because she had argued with
her brother again. He had taken away her beautiful music box. When you opened
it, a little unicorn danced to a very beautiful tune. She had forgotten the name
of the song, but it was the most beautiful thing she owned.

Yoko, her brother, was two years older than her and one time, on her last
birthday, when she turned six, Yoko had taken her watch away and even broken off
a small piece of the glass.

This time she was prepared. She quickly snatched the box out of his hand, kicked
his shin and ran as fast as she could. That was right for him!

Actually, she thought, everything was great here on vacation. They were at a
campsite. Everything was green and covered with bushes and everywhere there were
small holes where rabbits lived. She had even seen some twice. But they were too
fast to catch and pet them.

Whenever it's beautiful, her brother has to come and destroy everything. It was
exactly the same on her birthday. She ran and ran now with rage, was already
bent around two of the long hedges, past the last tents of the campsite and
halfway towards the beach.

Suddenly, she saw something bouncing on the ground. One of the rabbits. It had
to be a particularly trusting or courageous one, because she had never come so
close before. And that's despite the fact that she made so much noise with her
race. She stopped and slowly tripped forward to get closer to the little animal.
Maybe you can stroke it.

It hopped away and stopped in front of the dense hedge.

The shrubs in the hedge are so thorny and dense that you can't get through
anywhere. Only a few paths and trails are free. Kamina now knows them like the
back of her hand. This is your third time here.

Where the rabbit now sat, the roots, branches and small trunks of the hedge
formed something like a small door, a passage. There were no thorns here either.
It was the perfect entrance to a rabbit hole, Kamina thought.

"Come with me, here," said the rabbit.

Wait a minute, Kamina thought. Did the rabbit really speak?

"Yes, you there. You and your friend," the rabbit added.

"What friend?" Kamina replied, perplexed. She still couldn't believe that she
had found a talking rabbit. She had never heard of it before.

At that moment there was also a knock. Knock, knock. What would that be? That's
when she noticed that the knocking came out of her music box.

She opened the lid of the watch, but she didn't play any music. Immediately she
thought of her brother again. He has now completely broken the watch, she told
herself. But then she heard another voice.

"Hi Kamina, I'm Flox," the voice said. But this time it came from the little
unicorn in the music box. She couldn't believe her eyes.

"You can speak? You're alive?" Kamina was overwhelmed. First the talking rabbit
and now her favorite toy.

"Yes, Kamina. I'm here to take care of you."

"But, but..." Kamina began to stammer. But how can that be?"

"I've always looked out for you, my darling," said the little unicorn. "And I
can do a lot more than just talk. Pay attention."

The horse reared up briefly and the little horn began to shine in all the colors
of the rainbow. Then it seemed to get bigger and bigger. Kamina got a little
dizzy until she realized that the unicorn didn't grow at all. It became smaller.

In the meantime she was barely bigger than the rabbit and the next moment she
was already passing through the passage from which the rabbit came crawling
through the dense hedge.

The unicorn was now standing next to her. It was the size of a small pony, but
the graceful elegance of a beautiful white horse.

"Well, what do you think of that, Kamina?" said Fox in a much deeper and more
powerful voice than before.

"It scares me a little," Kamina replied. "You made me small. Oh dear. How do I
ever get it out of here?"

"Don't be afraid, Kamina!" Fox reassured her. "I'm always here for you. I
promise you that nothing will happen to you and that you will be back in time
for lunch."

"You know, we need your help," he added as they walked along a shady, narrow
passage among the thorny bushes. "The mermaids are in danger."

"The mermaids?" Kamina asked, dumbfounded. Whenever they went on holiday here,
Kamina had dreamed of mermaids. And now they really seem to exist? But since so
many crazy things happened to her, first the rabbit, then Flox and finally her
shrinkage, of course it had to be right. Mermaids, she would meet mermaids.

Flox began to talk about the sea creatures, the many different fish that can all
talk, the turtles, the fat whales. And he also told about King Neptune, the
second, the ruler of the water spirits and mermaids.

---

After a long walk, many bends and branches between the bushes, countless steps
carved into the cliff rocks, they finally arrived at the bottom of the sea. They
were located on a secluded stretch of beach. The water only made a few minor
waves. And when Kamina looked up, she couldn't believe her eyes.

She saw a pink sea of thousands of flamingos. All lined up and lined up one
behind the other, they caught fish or plucked their plumage.

One of them, who was standing at the very front, had a strange hat on. It looked
like a helmet, but it was made of leather. And he had glasses on his forehead.
At the moment, apparently, he didn't need them. Kamina thought that maybe he was
just putting them on to fly. Funny guy, a little crazy, Kamina thought.

"My name is River, the great guardian of the sea city, and these are my guards,"
the flamingo said to her and Flox, pointing his head at the large flock of other
flamingos.

"Who are you and what do you want?" he added in an imperious tone. Since they
had shrunk, the waterfowl was more than three times as large as them.

Flox nudged Kamina with his nostrils and asked her to say something.

"My name is Kamina Sommerspitz," she said, stuttering slightly frightened.

"... and I'm Flox. We are already awaited by King Neptune, the second. We're
here to help."

"Is that so?" River replied incredulously. "Is that you?". He made some funny,
nodding head movements to the second flamingo standing behind him. He
immediately bent back with his long neck and whispered something in the ear of
one of the flamingos that were still further back.

Like a wave, this silent mail went backwards and back again. After a few seconds
of embarrassed silence, the second finally leaned over to River and whispered
back to him an answer to the question posed only with gestures.

"You may pass," he said after a moment's thought. The flock of flamingos split
in half, clearing a path that led directly into the sea.

Flox and Kamina set off.

"Don't be afraid," he said. "You can just breathe underwater if I or one of the
water spirits is around."

Again, Kamina was overcome with some fear. She couldn't help but think about her
parents and the time that had elapsed since she had spotted the rabbit upstairs.
It had to be very late.

But it was also too exciting. And so she took her first steps into the sea,
which, surprisingly, did not seem cold to her at all, as she usually did when
they had gone swimming.

By the time they got to the gate, Flox and River, who followed them, were
talking about the problems of the underwater city.

"More and more plastic garbage and fishing nets are gathering in the small
houses and caves of the water spirits," Flox explained. "Last week, even the
beautiful big tower in the center of the city collapsed when a large net wrapped
around it and the next flood swept it away."

"But what can I do? I'm just a little girl," Kamina asked.

"King Neptune will tell you," River said muffled. His head was out of the water
as they walked down the alley. Kamina saw only his red legs. Sometimes, however,
he interfered with Flox's descriptions by submerging his head briefly.

Finally, they stood in front of a mighty, magnificently decorated wooden gate
painted in all colors in the middle of the sea. River dived in once more and
pounded the gate three times with his beak.

The gate slowly opened and they entered the kingdom of water spirits.

---

Kamina couldn't believe her eyes when they entered and she saw what was behind
the gate. A huge city and hundreds of water spirits and mermaids buzzed around
everywhere. With their long fish fins, they were the best swimmers she had ever
seen.

Some of the adults there looked very busy, but she also saw a lot of kids
swimming around and playing.

She was thrilled. Immediately she tried to dive around, but she was not quite so
fast with her human legs. Nevertheless, after a few minutes it worked quite
well. Only Flox continued to trot along the ground. You could see that it wasn't
his world.

Suddenly, she saw a group of four young water spirits swimming towards her.

"Hello, who are you?" said the first, somewhat dismissively.

"I'm Neria," the second mermaid immediately chimed in in a much more polite tone
when she realized that Kamina was a little intimidated. "And that's Xiope,
Filipe and Meghan here has already greeted you."

"Hello," Kamina said shyly. "My name is Kamina, Kamina Sommerspitz. I'm human,
and I was brought here by my friend Flox." Kamina gestured backwards. Flox was
already a few steps behind. If you had to walk on the ground, you didn't move so
fast.

"Oh, good old Flox," Neria said.

"You know him?" Kamina asked, surprised.

"Yes, of course. Everyone here knows Flox. He has helped us many times. He is a
good friend of our father."

"Oh. I've only known him for a few hours, even though he's been in my music box
for a few years."

"What? I don't understand. You'll have to tell me more about that soon. But
first, let's talk about us. We are four siblings and our father is the king
here."

"Oh," Kamina replied. "King Neptune is your father?"

"Yes, exactly, how do you know him?"

"Flox and River the Flamingo told me about him. I think they want to take me to
him."

Kamina told her story - everything that had happened to her so far on that
strange day. And the four water spirits also told her some stories.

Kamina quickly got along so well with the four water spirits that she forgot the
time and immersed herself in games and stories.

It was only after an hour that she found Flox and one of the adult water
spirits.

"Kamina, where have you been for so long," Flox began, who seemed to be pretty
out of breath. "I've been looking for you for an eternity. We wanted to go to
the king. Think about your task."

Kamina felt guilty. The task. She was just a little six-year-old girl. How was
she supposed to master such a big task? At that moment, she wanted to continue
playing with Neria, Xiope and the others.

"Come on, we'll go with you," Neria finally suggested. "Let's pay Dad a visit.
I'm sure Ee doesn't mind," she told the others.

And so the group of six made their way to the royal palace in the middle of the
city. On the way they also passed the pile of rubble from the remains of the
great tower. A horrible sight.

At the same time, however, Kamina also saw the beautiful houses of the city. She
was particularly thrilled when they swam onto the large square in front of the
palace. She had never seen such a beautifully sparkling, magnificent estate as
she had seen the palace.

"This is where we live," Neria finally said.

"Wow," Kamina exclaimed, astonished, as they were escorted into the palace by
the guards.

---

"I'll never find my way back alone," Kamina thought to herself after she stood
in front of the throne room through a maze of corridors, halls and intermediate
rooms. Especially because she was previously guided through a tangle of roads in
this underwater city and before that through a maze of paths in the bushes that
led from the campsite to Rivers beach.

While she was still pondering, the door swung open and they were able to enter a
huge, magnificent hall. It was so tall that even in its shrunken full size, it
would have fit in without bumping her head.

"Come closer," she heard a dark, humming voice echoing from across the hall. The
echo came back from all sides. It came from the man on the throne. It had to be
King Neptune, Neria's, Xiope's, Filipe's and Meghan's father.

"Hello Dad," began Meghan, who had already swum ahead.

"Well?" he asked. "Who did you bring with you?"

It was only when the group approached that Neptune saw the Swift appear here in
the group.

"Flox, my old friend," he greeted the unicorn enthusiastically and swam towards
him. "What a joy to see you!"

They whispered a little among themselves. Kamina didn't understand what they
were saying. But eventually they approached her.

"That's Kamina, Kamina Sommerspitz from the people," Flox introduced her.

Embarrassed, Kamina made a knix, as she had once seen in a fairy tale movie. The
tall, slightly fat, bearded, majestic-looking ruler of the water spirits waved
his hand.

"Ah," began the king. "Who's going to be so formal? I am King Neptune and I
welcome you! I see you've met my children yet?"

"Yes," Kamina tried to answer politely. "They were very nice to me."

"I'm glad to hear, girl," he replied. "Flox has already told me a lot about
you."

Kamina looked at the unicorn, who nodded his head reassuringly and
affirmatively. "Only the best," Flox said.

"I don't know if I can help you," finally blurted out the question from Kamina,
which had been spreading through her for hours.

"Hahaha," the king laughed in a friendly tone. "And if you can do that, little
one," he replied. You have the gift. Flox told me about it weeks ago and now I
see it with my own eyes. You have to believe in yourself ... Come with me."

King Neptune took Kamina aside. They swam to a quieter side of the hall and took
a seat on a bench. Flox followed them while the king's children continued to
play.

"Think of some toy," said the king.

Kamina couldn't think of anything other than her brother's little old beach
ball. Suddenly, he fell right into her lap. Frightened, she looked around and
looked to see if her brother was coming around the corner somewhere. But there
was nothing to see.

"Try it again, this time with a piece of jewelry," Neptune said, and at the same
time took the ball from her, let it go and floated upwards to the ceiling.

She felt something cold around her neck and recognized the silver necklace with
the small heart amulet in which the pictures of her parents were inserted. She
was sure that she hadn't even taken it with her on vacation.

"How do you do that?" Kamina asked in astonishment.

"Oh, I don't do anything," Neptune replied. "It's all coming from you. You have
the rare gift of imagination. You can imagine things that come true. You've
always been able to do it, but the older you get, the better you can concentrate
and the better it will work."

"Flox has already shown you what happened to our beautiful city. The beautiful
tower, which once rose to the surface of the sea, recently collapsed because a
huge fishing net got caught in it. But that's only part of the problem.

The whole city is struggling with plastic parts from the people, the fish
outside the city and the whole beach are also affected. In fact, some of us
water spirits and many other sea creatures have died from it."

Kamina was affected and feared for this beautiful world that she had just
discovered. It could not be lost. But she didn't really know what to do about it
either.

"All residents of the city will help. But we need even more protection. Your
imagination can do that. The task is simple and complicated at the same time.
Come up with something that keeps the garbage away from our city, but that
doesn't harm the marine life. We had tried nets before, but fish got caught in
them."

Kamina closed her eyes and pondered. She couldn't help but think of her dolls.
She had a doll that could grab with her hands. Her brother had also been given a
toy, a small excavator that could extend his gripper arm. Her imagination
rattled like never before. In front of her, images opened up of the arms fishing
out the waste from the incoming masses of water.

The king and Flox both looked at Kamina and realized what was going on in their
heads. Then they nodded to each other, smiling, before Kamina could open her
eyes again and talk about her idea.

---

When they swam back outside to the large square in front of the palace, the
whole city was already on its way. Everyone should pitch in and free the whole
beach from garbage.

Kamina, along with Neria, Neptune, Felipe, Xiope, Meghan, and some of the
guards, swam to the outskirts of the city that lay in the ocean current. She was
even allowed to ride one of the Napoleon fish. It was incredible fun. But along
the way, she kept thinking about what she wanted to build.

She dropped off at a convenient spot near a rock and began to close her eyes
again.

Neria and the others could only stand by and marvel. In addition to all the
helpers from the city, who buzzed around and picked up garbage and suspended
particles, extendable arms made of coral parts and rusted pieces of metal formed
out of nowhere. At its head was a kind of hand that could grab anything that was
floating around in the area.

Again and again, some of the arms shot out of their hiding places, grabbed
floating nets, plastic bottles and plastic sheets, and then passed them
backwards, so that they washed up on the beach outside the reach of the
submarine city.

The helpers also made the pile of rubbish bigger every minute.

After Kamina created enough grippers, she was pretty exhausted. Flox noticed it
and took care of her. Slowly, everyone made their way back to the city.

Kamina was amazed when they passed the mountain of rubbish that had arisen in
the meantime on the way back. Everywhere the many water spirits were still
scurrying around and doing their work by piling up the garbage coming from all
directions.

Kamina knew it wasn't enough to just pile up the trash here, and she remembered
a butterfly caterpillar she'd seen once. The little animal had eaten a huge
leaf. And that's how she came up with an idea.

She closed her eyes once more and a few seconds later a horde of caterpillars
made their way over the mountain of rubbish and ate it to the last remnant, only
to turn into hundreds of beautiful butterflies.

"Kamina," said Neptune, the second, when they finally arrived at the big gate.
"You saved our city. How can we ever thank you for that?"

"May I come back someday?" asked Kamina.

"You are always welcome here, like my own children," replied the intoxicated
king.

Kamina looked at Neria and they blinked at each other.

As she slowly strolled back to the beach with Flox, she was startled once again.
She saw her brother splashing in the water. But when she looked a little closer,
she noticed that he wasn't splashing around at all. He was stuck with his foot.
He must have gotten caught in one of the fishing nets. You could feel his panic.

Kamina quickly summoned a few more water spirit helpers, who also did their
cleaning work out here near the beach. Compared to her brother, she and the
water spirits were just tiny ones. More and more panicked, he now kicked in his
shackles and the water spirits had a hard time. But in the end, they made it.

Yoko, her brother, freed himself and was able to swim normally again. When he
looked around, he couldn't quite believe his eyes. He shook his head. Was that
his sister? He saw a few little figures in the water and one of them looked like
his little sister.

For a brief moment he seemed to be attached to something. He blamed it on this
short-term confusion and kept swimming. It's a strange feeling.

---

"The climb to the campsite is exhausting," said Flox, who was now standing next
to her on the beach again and shaking out his mane. "But not when you're as tall
as a human being."

"Yes, that's a good idea," Kamina understood, and with a little movement, Flox
made her grow tall again.

"You must have thought you'd been away all day, right?" he adds. "But when
you're little, time passes more slowly. It's only been half an hour since I
downsized you."

Totally exhausted, but overjoyed, Kamina strolled back the steep path, up to the
campsite.

"Where are you from?" she greeted her mother. "We'll have lunch in a few
minutes, you're all wet and dirty. Jump in the shower before that, honey."

When Kamina returned, the food was already on the table and her father and Yoko
were already sitting there.

She glanced at Yoko for a moment and winked at him. Yoko was a little confused,
but he understood what she was trying to say and nodded back with a grin.
