---
superTitle: Shortstory
title: The Operator
description:
  The first deep-dive into the cyberpunk world of the Mesh and its inhabitants.
  We follow some hackers in Hamburg on a data heist.
color: '#E0C2A8'
startDate: 2022-11-29
date: 2023-06-05
finished: true
weight: 1
related:
  - storylines/mesh
tags:
  - Mesh
  - Hamburg
  - SciFi
  - Cyberpunk
---

The concert hall was disappointing as usual, an old shabby place made out of
concrete and ugly steel bars in the middle of nowhere south of Hamburg. But
anyway Hugo loved live concerts. In the three-dimensional Mesh versions, you
could take a view from each angle, always experience perfect sound and see the
masterfully designed virtual architecture of the venue. But the connection to
the band was missing.

These days you usually got two or three tickets to virtual concerts of the tour
together with your live ticket. Today, he went there alone. But his girlfriend
Adele and his colleague `R00t` (he didn't even know her real name) were there,
too. Both plugged in from home and connected through their immersives.

Hugo was a freelance operator and designer. He created and maintained places in
the Mesh, usually for companies. `R00t` was his developer. She was responsible
for the core software parts. They met each day. But they had never seen each
other in real life.

The gig had been awesome as expected. But he went home in time, no more
excursions into after-concert clubs today. His home was in what the city knew as
the left pylon. The pylons had been a hotel project that didn't work out as
expected. The rooms and floors were built into the remains of the once famous,
huge Köhlbrand-Bridge in the harbour.

The original project had been very ambitious - several storeys of an exclusive
hotel built into the two massive pylons and connected via gondolas. However, the
contractor company got bankrupt and left the construction site unfinished.

But the squatter community was strong at that time and so the venue got
inhabited illegally. The infrastructure was excellent as soon as some geeks
added some DIY effort and maintenance. Nobody asked questions as long as the
ownership was not clear.

Around 20 people lived on Hugo's side. But that day when he came home, he saw
someone leaving through the elevator, someone he didn't recognize. It was
suspicious. When he entered his flat and noticed that he had been robbed, the
shock therefore was not as heavy as one would think. Hugo had expected something
like that already.

---

Zizkov was a rather strange place to live these days. But Hana liked the
atmosphere, which spanned between the cosy, old and worn down artist houses and
the rotten monster of concrete, the tower that once was used for TV
transmission. She bet that no one in Prague even knew anymore what a TV was. She
also only knew it from her stubborn grandparents who refused to use the Mesh.

She was sitting in the Bar Bukowski, her living room, the nicest place on earth.
Her lenses were in AR mode so she could breathe its atmosphere while thinking
about her complicated second life as `R00t`.

`R00t`, the hacker was not complicated at all. What gave her a headache was her
relationship with two people at the same time. She loved `B055`, but she also
worked with him every day, so she couldn't tell him. But she also loved Adele,
his girlfriend. And she never met anyone of them in real life. A triangle of
tragedies. If everything could be as easy and clear as coding, she thought.

---

Hugo immediately looked through his things. What had been missing? What did that
guy steal? All he possessed, everything of value was virtual. The Mesh was his
home. This flat was just a necessity.

So he started cleaning up the mess. The single room was not very big, so it was
easy for the thief to mess up literally everything. Hugo folded his clothes that
were lying on the floor. He put back the three physical books he possessed -
among them his only piece of sentimental value. "The Hunchback of Notre Dame", a
gift from his mother. Then he put the tin plates and metal cups back into the
kitchen corner.

Nothing was broken, nothing was missing. So what was this all about? At least
one thing was clear. He had to invest some bucks into security equipment. First
thing tomorrow.

He sat on his chair and finally plugged into the mesh. In his home space on his
virtual desk, a light was blinking on the old, virtual fifties office telephone.
A message. From local. The thief must have planted it.

---

"She's gone. They have her. What should I do? This is so fucked up. What's going
on?" `B055` had a complete breakdown. He had called Hana into their office space
in the Mesh and didn't stop talking nonsense since she had arrived. She still
couldn't understand a word. He needed a slap in his digital face.

She opened the console and typed. Then a noise was induced into `B055`'s ears.
After a short gesture of horror, his voice stopped and he started breathing
heavily.

"`B055`, hey", she adressed him. "What is going on? Talk slowly and in full
sentences!"

After some more seconds of breathing, he finally started. "Someone has kidnapped
Adele. They broke into my flat and left me a message."

Now Hana broke down as well, but she had to keep the rollercoaster on the
inside.

"Who are they? What do they want?", she asked.

"I don't know who. They come back with more. They left me the coordinates of a
message box. Adele is off the grid, `R00t`. She's not traceable and I can't
reach her."

---

"Glad you have found our message", a distorted voice said with a noticeable
ironic undertone. "We have your girlfriend. You know that. Hugo Niemann, you
will do something for us. You will raid the crypto vault of Credit Cayman. We
know what you're capable of."

"That is what they sent me", said `B055` to `R00t` in their virtual home base
after he had calmed down a bit and came back from visiting and looting the given
coordinates. "They also gave me some additional instructions in an encrypted
attachment. Probably the first picking test."

"We're not criminals", answered `R00t` in a slight panic. "At least not that
type. But Adele, she's in danger and I'm sure they'll finish her if we involve
the cops."

"We can't go to the cops. That would be the end of our work and my home in the
Pylons. We have to do it."

"You're right. I'm frightened, but I'm also pissed. Hugo, we have to do
something. We're better than this."

"What do you have in mind?" asked `B055` finally.

---

`B055` once showed her the place in the 3D map of Prague. "I'd go there", he
said pointing at the ugliest piece of brutalism architecture that her otherwise
beautiful home city had to offer. It was the abandoned, rotten TV tower. Now she
came here to think from time to time. And there was a lot to process now.

She thought of the heist. Why them? How should they do it? She also had to think
of beautiful Adele. Was she safe? And she had to think of `B055`, who was no
boss at all. She now found out about his real name, Hugo Niemann. Well, it
didn't make things less complicated in her head.

"Focus", she thought while sitting in the wind on a concrete plateau 100m above
the red roofs. She went through the heist, every step, looked up things through
her AR, created small programs, helper dæmons and illegal bridges to quantum
computing arrays.

Then she saw something in the virtual blueprints. She found their way out of
this mess. Now there was one question left: Should she tell `B055`?

---

The day of the heist. `B055` and `R00t` prepared themselves. They chose flies as
their Avatars. `R00t` once came up with that mod. Actually, avatars have to be
at least 1 unit in height, about 1 meter in real life, but she found a creative
way around this rule. For today's purpose, a little piece of nothing that could
defy virtual gravity was a perfect fit.

Security in the Mesh is a two-fold topic. There are the virtual mechanics in
place, a set of rules that define the physics of the system. A wall simply can't
be passed easily and all objects have a protocoled relation between each other.
A user can't mess up with those things that easily on the code level for
example. This first aspects provides a significant level of security already.
Important stuff, however, is additionally secured by crypto, the very valuable
assets were encrypted on quantum computing level.

The Credit Cayman vault had both. But as flies, most of the mechanical
obstacles, entrance, elevators, door locks, were not really an obstacle. All the
others were a task for `R00t`'s AI, that she called Kit. `R00t` Kit, a funny pun
only she and a handful of really old hackers understood.

Only minutes later they surpassed the physical security layers and stood in
front of the safe, back in their normal avatars.

---

The safe was a different beast. It couldn't be cracked with programming skills.
That was the task of `B055`, the Operator. Hugo did not only know most of the
security systems by heart, he also had an intuition for the situation and he had
a bespoke toolkit from `R00t`. So he went to work.

There was a scanner that searched the whole vault for intrusive objects, but it
took minutes to complete, so they had a window.

The first five levels of crypto security. That was an only mildly complicated
part, simple enough for a digital lockpicker expert. He established a bypass
connection to one of the quantum computing arrays that `R00t` organized for him
and within seconds, these front doors were unlocked.

But there was more. For two virtu-physical locks, he could use a tool similar to
an endoscope for digital rooms. He looked directly into the mechanics and solved
yet another of the riddles within seconds.

Finally the detector traps. Even being a fly didn't help with that problem. They
had to find the target and replace it before the scan completed. It took awfully
long. The scanner would soon detect them. Hugo's clock showed 30 seconds when
they opened the door to the inner chamber.

`B055` had moved like a robot. This was his world, the crunch time. Twenty
seconds left on the clock. The time was counting down in his heads-up display.
For some of the data artefacts, he used ejectors that could transfer the raw
data. But some of them had to be extracted as a whole, the complete virtual
objects. The problem: This would be discovered within minutes by the securities
at Credit Cayman.

In parallel `R00t` therefore had to take care of covering their traces. She
scrambled transmissions and dynamically switched VPN chains.

And on top, she planted the evidence, their counter heist. It would be a digital
bomb that was supposed to detonate six hours later. She placed data packages,
that contained backtraces to their imposed clients, in carefully selected areas
of the virtual vault. A risky manoeuvre. That's why she didn't tell `B055`.

Five seconds left.

"Allright, let's go", he said and finished the last step. Then they activated
Houdini, the Software that made Avatars disappear.

---

`B055` and `R00t` needed over three hours in their virtual lab to sort out and
prepare the loot from the heist. Some of the data packets contained encrypted
inclusions they had to crack first. Some others were still covered in their
virtual objects. Paranoid shit.

But finally, they could put their delivery together. They still had no idea what
it was. The data didn't make any sense to them. It was no crypto money. That's
the only thing they knew. Finally, `B055` pushed the button and sent off the
data to the classic email account the kidnappers gave them.

Time was ticking while they waited. `R00t`'s virtual bomb that placed the
evidence was time-based and supposed to detonate in some minutes. After that,
they might have had another hour until the bank got hold of their kidnappers.
She repeatedly looked at the countdown on her watch. Time passed. The bomb went
off and `R00t`'s stood still for a while. It didn't work, did it?

A minute later, `B055` received a simple message with a green checkmark emoji
from an unknown number. Another five minutes later, he heard from Adele.

---

Three weeks had passed since the heist. Although the first call with Hugo and
Adele was heartwarming and tears were flowing, Hana felt a change. They barely
had gigs together in that time and they met in their real Avatars. At the same
time, they were closer and more distant to each other. Hana decided that it was
time to do something. She took the train to Hamburg.

She crushed somewhere in the pylons in one of the abandoned rooms near Hugo's
place. On the second night, she sat in a bar with him.

"Adele did not take it so well", he started the conversation. "Last week, we
broke up."

Hana was devastated. "Why didn't you tell me? Should I go and talk to her?"

"I think, you should give her some time."

They didn't say much more that night, just sitting in front of their cocktails
and staring at the opposite wall.

But Hana had to try. On the next morning, she visited Adele and had a long talk.
Adele wasn't used to that kind of crazyness. She wasn't made for risky actions
on the verge of legality. She wasn't made for their life.

In that moment, also Hana recognized that it takes a while to heal the wounds
and took the next train back to Prague.
