---
superTitle: Children's Story
title: The Guillorys
description:
  We are guests at an extraordinary family of mice in theire residence in New
  Orleans, the Guillorys. What's so special about them, you ask? Well, some of
  them have super powers.
colorSpace: tan
language: en
ref: storylines/the-guillorys-de
unfinished: true
type: Children's Story
startDate: 2023-03-27
date: 2023-08-04
related:
  - storylines/kamina-2
  - storylines/asimov
tags:
  - Mice
  - Super Hero
  - For Children
  - Fantasy
  - Storyline
  - Short Story
  - SciFi
---

_Louis_

Hello everyone, I'm Louis Guillory, Loo-Eee Gee-Yoo-Ree, that's how you
pronounce it. My grannie said, it's french, but my family lives here in New
Orleans. Our ancestors were great sailors and explorers from Europe. I'd also
like to see the world someday, but mom didn't let me out of the house yet.

Woah, but here in the house there is already so much to discover. Our family
alone is huge. My grannie, my grandpa and his father, the wise Dr. Guillory live
with us. I have nine siblings and at least as many uncles and aunts and
countless cousins. Many of them live here in Mansion, our home. And there are
also our neighbours, the Landrys and not to forget the evil Fontenots, who own
the bar.

Another woah, I almost forgot to mention the most important thing. I am a
teenage mouse. Well, that's not the important thing, that's normal, I guess. But
yesterday, I have found out that I can fly. I was hovering, I swear.

_Seraphine_

Good morning, my name is Seraphine Guillory. I'd like to talk about my family
and things. At the moment, I'm so annoyed by my brothers. I have eleven
siblings, most of them are nice. Fleur for example is so cool. Some of them are
still babies. But Louis and Remy are pranking the others all the time.
Troublemakers, that's what they are.

Whatever. Yesterday I found out something strange. I stood in front of the
mirror shard in my little alcove and - I swear - I was half transparent. I could
see the wall behind me. It was just a second at first.

I tried to concentrate and after a while, I could control it. Now I can become
invisible whenever I want. Isn't that great? I can go wherever I want without
being seen.

But I promised myself that I will use my power only for good things. Not like my
nasty brothers would do it. Speaking of which, now I have an advantage. I think,
I should find out more about their plans.

_Remy_

Hi, my name is Remy. Remy Guillory. Louis is my older brother and my best
friend. We spend every minute together. It never gets boring, I can assure you.
But today strange things happened and in the end, we couldn't stop laughing
about it. Believe it or not, we're supermice now.

So here's what happened. We moved around in our hood, the western walls of the
dining room and the spaces above. So while we were running around the ceiling to
reach the outer wall and the window area, my knees went to pudding, I stumbled
and fell at high speed and overturned three times. Woah, what a stunt. It was so
cool.

Then Louis pulled my legs and they became longer and longer. They were elastic.
My body, too. "Hold on to that nail", he said and then he pulled more until I
was three times as large as normal. Long story short, I am elastic now whenever
I want.

Later on, Louis showed me that he could fly. We have superpowers, how epic is
that?

---

_Seraphine_

Seraphine knew that her two brothers were up to no good and decided to use her
new talent to observe them. She wanted to find out what they were planning. So
she made herself invisible and sneaked into a space in the wall, where they
usually hang out.

She sneaked into the space, climbed some of the bars as silent as possible and
concentrated on here invisibility. If she had lost her focus, she found out, she
would have become half transparent like a ghost.

There they were. She could stand right next to them going unnoticed. But what
she saw next was a surprise. Louis was hovering some centimeters above the
ground. And Remy's belly was twice as long as normal and much thinner. She
couldn't hold focus again.

"What?", started Remy to stutter. "Louis, look, a ghost ..."

"What the cat is going on?", said all three almost simultaneously.

Then they moved around each other. Louis also looked from the top. Remy bent
himself with his flexible body towards Seraphine while she flickered between
solid, transparent and invisible.

"Good weasel," said Louis, who was the first after a few long seconds of
silence. "Seraphine is one of us, too. Hello Sera!"

"Hell-loo weasel," she replied with a long drawn-out hello and a not-so-clever
nickname she had pulled from her brother's statement. She hated that she
couldn't find anything cooler at that moment. She was not the most spontaneous
mouse.

"Hi Sera," Remy added as if nothing had happened.

But then something happened. They started talking to each other and figured out
what they could do. They started making plans, all three together. In their
minds they had already conquered the world, or at least the Mansion. But most
importantly, they found out that they were not enemies. Instead, they had common
enemies and they could name them.

There were the Fontenots from the bar in the basement, a truly snobby family.
There were also the "Notorious Seven", the seven squirrels who were constantly
stealing food from their supplies. And let's not forget the cats, the Mansion's
three pet cats, who ate at least two of her great uncles. One evening Granny
told them this horror story, after which they couldn't sleep for two days.

The cats, the cats, thought young Remy. We should do something about these
beasts.

---

_Louis_

I don't know what to make of it, thought Louis. I mean Sera, my annoying sister.
She was one of us too? What would happen next? My dad flying around the corner?
But well, she's probably not as weird as I thought. Or - haha - we're all that
weird. We're super mice. We're the Guillorys. Just like in one of the comics we
found under the roof when we visited our nephews, the Benoits.

The thoughts circled in Louis' head. And while he walked next to his little
brother and his twin sister, he carefully watched their facial expressions and
knew that they were thinking the same.

"Remy, Remy," he finally said. It might have been the longest time in their
lives, where didn't say a word to each other. Remy looked up, Sera, too. They
stopped in front of the stairs in the wall that Grandpa had built.

"I was thinking about the cats," said Remy suddenly as if he had heard Louis'
thoughts. What a surprise, he must have been five steps ahead because he was
already in the middle of his first adventure as "The Wonderful Guillorys".

"Okay," he continued. "We know three of them, but maybe there are more on the
other floors of the Mansion, right? But when we visited our nephews or went to
the bar, no one told us any stories about other cats. The only thing we know are
the scary stories from our grandma."

"You're right about that," I replied. "But there's no doubt that they exist.
We've seen them many times and our parents trained us to hide from them. There's
the big, grumpy grey one with the long fur. Then there's the elegant, sporty one
with the spots and the little fluffy one. Once I saw the teeth of the grumpy
one. His canines were as big as my arm. They must just be monsters, no doubt."

Remy's body trembled as Louis told him the details. His elastic form made it
look more comical than it should, and all three of them had to laugh out loud.

"Stop it," he said then. "Let's find out more instead. Sera of the Wonderful
Guillorys, probably your invisibility trick can help us."

"A recon mission," I said before Seraphine could answer. "That's a great idea.
Phase one of our first mission. Find out as much as we can."

"Well", said Sera carfully, "let me think. I always wanted to know more about
these beasts. Yea, all right, let's do it. I can observe. That's what I do best.
Quickly, let's get back to our headquarters."

---

_Seraphine_

They had made plans for several hours. Seraphine was surprised, that Remy was so
good at this. He had drawn a detailed plan of at least half of the floor and
marked with cat paw symbols where the three giant enemies usually could be
found.

Louis on the other hand was the logistics expert. He had brought all sorts of
supply. Among other things, he had a small notebook and a little mirror shard
with which the mice could look around corners.

But Sera needed none of this. In fact, she couldn't even write. And also, only
she was invisible herself, not the things she carried and it looked pretty
awkward when she tried to carry the notebook with her.

They decided to observe her from far while she could spy against the cats while
standing directly in front of them.

Even more awkward than not seeing herself in the mirror was the thought that she
could just stroll towards the cats and they wouldn't notice her. The word she
was searching was actually not awkward. It was frightening.

But she had to do it. She had to overcome her fear. She had to be the brave in
the team. And so there she stood, in the living room of the mansion, 2 meters
away from the fireplace and only half a meter in front of the fluffy one
sleeping on a carpet. Her heart was beating so loud that she was afraid that the
cat monster could actually hear it.

She stood there for at least a minute before she dared to move again. But it
seemed to work. So she dared a bit more. Some steps first, then some more until
she stood in front of the huge closed eye directly next to the head of the
monster. She could see the fluffy fur on the cat's cheek. Then she made a
mistake. Accidentally, she touched one of the whiskers and the cat opened its
eyes.

Seraphine looked directly into the big green pupils that looked like gigantic
headlights in her mind. But nothing happened. The cat turned her head around and
continued its nap. That was the moment she started to breathe again. She must
have held her breath for an hour or so. But in reality everything took only a
couple of seconds. The first experiment was successful.

So the Wonderful Guillorys continued their mission.
