---
superTitle: Short Story
title: The Bond
description:
  The great mash up between the transspace story and the study of my first alien
  race, the Kret.
colorSpace: purple
unfinished: true
startDate: 2021-11-15
date: 2024-01-02
related:
  - storylines/transspace
  - storylines/kret
tags:
  - Aliens
  - Space Opera
  - Space Travel
  - SciFi
---

## Marla

Marla Lay had been a gifted child. She graduated at age 13, got her master's
degree at 15 and wrote an already groundbreaking piece as her PhD Thesis when
she was 20. That was in the year 2089.

But it was not the end of her career. She was not obsessed with going deeper
into one field. She wanted to go broader. She wanted to have an explanation for
the universe as a whole. And some of her broad traits helped her in other
situations as well. She was the literal multi talent of the third millennium,
thinking outside the box like her role model and genius of the second millennium
Albert Einstein.

One of her interests was in data science. She was working with AI in terms of
training and giving them the right kind of work at the right time. It turned out
to be some kind of symbiosis.

Her second side trait was good portion of realism and an understanding of
economy and psychology. So she also was a natural leader and entrepreneur.

The real breakthrough in her main field of work had happened at age 26. In 2095,
she published her paper "A Theory of Transspace", a paper that was supposed to
change the world of science and the world itself more radically than the Theory
of Relativity or Darwin's Origin of Species.

But also that was just the start. Marla was supposed to become more famous than
Einstein, not only because of her groundbreaking papers that changed physics. It
was her entrepreneurial spirit, that she added to her work as a scientist. This
instinct led her to form a think tank to bring her scientific work to the next
level and into reality.

In that project, she gathered many leading scientists and engineers together for
some years to develop viable spin offs and ideas from her Transspace theory. The
project was called "Enclave", because she brought everyone in there to
collaborate closely and work in a gated and controlled environment. Neither
speculations nor premature thoughts went out of that circle.

The results were disruptive to say the least. The team presented a Faster Than
Light drive that made humanity ready to conquer the solar system. As a side
result, they presented anti gravity technology that also changed the life on
earth at once by providing safe and fast transportation and an infinite amount
of new and spectacular tools.

But yet another step increased her fame after the Enclave project published
their results and that is the fact that she made money out of her discoveries,
so much that she became the third richest person in the solar system with her
megacorp Zodiac.

At that time there were already four other global players, who were not so
global anymore. They made their money in space by mining asteroids, running
space station chains and controlled interplanetary transport. All of them were
eager to use the new tech, that could bring more people and goods to and from
their real estate. But Marla and Zodiac owned many of the patents and had the
talent and skills to use them. They were soon involved in all of these
profitable businesses.

Even the name was wisely chosen as two of the other corporations were called
Sagittarius and Scorpio. Zodiac for them might have sounded like a declaration
of war, but at the same time, they needed access to that groundbreaking
technology.

Fifty years later, Marla retired from the company's chair at age 80. The solar
system was split between three corporations with more financial power than any
state on earth. The Dublin drive, invented by Zodiac, was the dominant spaceship
technology. So the company became number two under Marla, so huge that it could
buy number three, Sagittarius. Bigger than any terrestrial nation, no authority
was there to prevent them from doing so. It was the corporate wild west. But the
possibilities to grow didn't end at the borders of the solar system.

After Marla Lay, Chi Feng became chairman. He came up with the idea to put his
claim on other star systems. He was a diplomat and cultivated good relations
with the other megacorps. He managed to form a consortium with his competitors.
Their project: sending a series discovery drones into the universe.

Already two years later, the first pair of drones launched from the facilities
at Zodiac space station. Project Gemini - of course it was named after a zodiac
sign and as it was a pair of rockets, the choice was obvious - started to Alpha
Centauri and Barnard's Star. The drones were built to find habitable planets and
valuable asteroids autonomously and acted as communication phalanxes for the
probes they carried in their bodies.

## Marie

Marie approached Zodiac Station inside the most comfortable space vessel
possible. It had two lounges with top class bar tenders for only a few
exclusively selected people. Everything was posh. But Marie was used to
travelling this way.

Her destination, the station circled Titan, which circled Saturn, which in turn
circled our Sun. That's what she thought sitting among the 15 other suits who
prepared for the docking maneuver at the end of their comfortable flight. All of
them, Marie included, were representatives of the wealthiest corporations of the
solar system. This was the most exclusive funding event she ever attended.

Before she could finish her thought, the impressive station appeared on Titan's
Horizon. It was huge and perfectly symmetrical. The famous space architect Zoe
Zass had designed it. Actually it was the first piece of space construction that
was designed and not only engineered - although it was a gigantic wharf, and
industrial site.

On both sides, you could see the half-finished ships, the twins from the Gemini
project. Their characteristic star form with five arms coming from the
specifications of the so called Dublin drive could already be seen. The twins
were already bigger than the shuttle they were in despite they were not even
half as big as they would finally become and despite the fact that they were
drones that wouldn't even carry a living space crew.

On additional parallel platforms, the manufactories were assembled. They would
be put into the belly of the drone ships when the mission started. These engines
could produce arbitrary tools, probes, miners or other devices to explore the
target solar system. They were little autonomous wharves themselves - so much
more than 3d printers. They could digest raw material like ore from remote
asteroids and forge whatever was needed for the mission.

Most of the technology of these manufactories came from Maries company
ForgeForce. It was not among the five largest corporations, but their CEO
decided to invest a great deal of company money into the Gemini adventure. It
was a risky move, but Marie, who had been appointed as the project lead, was
sure that it would pay off hundredfold.

ForgeForce's technology was the missing link for colonisation. The company
engineered blueprints for hundreds of essential appliances to colonize a new
planet whether it was habitable or not - or not yet. The manufactories could
build reliable housing, energy cells as well as terraforming gear on a large
scale.

For Marie, the presentation on that day was impressive. At that point, half of
her company had been involved in the project already but the investor show and
the disclosure of their plans and mission goals was the last missing bit to
convince her boss. After contributing technology he also bought ten percent of
the project shares two years before their first launch.

---

Two and a half years later, Marie was the CFO of her company. ForgeForce went
through rather tough times as most of their capital was in the Gemini project.
But the first two projects were over now. The general idea was to build a
continuous program to explore the surrounding stars around our solar system,
always two at a time. While one misson was on its way the machines for the next
twin mission was about to be assembled.

So these days, numbers three and four were docked at the Zodiac station. The
first twins were on their mission and had already reported a fifty per cent
success. Probe number one brought early amazing results from our nearest
neighbour, Alpha Centauri. It was a relief for the mission management and
especially for Maries company.

Barnard's Star, the second mission however, had a series of failures in its
transmission module and didn't deliver any results.

Marie had reached her goal already. Almost nobody would have expected such a
good outcome anyway. Alpha Centauri became a gold mine and Marie in turn was
appointed to CFO. ForceForge was given the license for the construction and real
estate of the first extrasolar dwellings of mankind. It was the start of an
exclusive holiday and migration business, the best time to build hotels on
Proxima Centauri 3.

The Twins project and Marie's involvement were not finished at that time. The
company decided to reinvest their profits continuously. Every six months, Zodiac
was ready with another pair of probes and sent them on their way to the stars in
our neighbourhood. They visited twenty destinations within five years and almost
each of them with at least a small financial success. Some companies profited
from mining, others started terraforming and creating settlements. Dozens of
adventurous communities wanted to start a new way of living and be the founders
of a society on a new planet.

ForgeForce had the technology to build all necessary infrastructure and also
made a lot of money with licensing their technology to the new settlements.

In the sixth year, something big happened. One of the probes reported the
discovery of intelligent life.

## Martin

Mission 23 of the Gemini project targeted the Rana system. Rana was about 30
light years away from the sun. For a long time, it had been considered a rather
uninteresting system. Some scientists have claimed that there wouldn't be
planets at all. Mission 18 however brought us closer and the manufactory had
produced a large telescope that transmitted footage from its host system, but
also from surrounding stars. It became clear that Rana showed interesting
anomalies.

The Gemini project had already found life on mission 12 and 17. It discovered
one planet with a funghi like species that rendered pretty much inhabitable and
thus useless, but yet interesting for scientists. The other one was a planet
with an almost breathable atmosphere and grass-like plants. It was the most
interesting candidate for a short term terraforming project, that could produce
a second Earth within a century.

But Rana turned out to be different. When the Gemini probe approached the
system, the first detailed stereoscopic screenings showed clear signs of life
and activity. The Gemini headquarters immediately sent orders for visual
observation, so the probe started manufacturing a series of drones with
hi-resolution optics.

One month into the project, the drones produced footage of the planet's surface.
There were settlements and humanoid lifeforms. The next step was immediately
clear to everyone at the Gemini headquarters. A mission was planned.

The various wharves around Titan and in the Jupiter orbit had a lot of
experience in building bespoke space ships in a short amount of time. Within one
year they conceived and built an interstellar ship for a 100 people crew.

The Nigerian Martin Adebayo was a diplomat at Zodiac station at that time. He
was the representative for the United Nations and the African Union and
responsible for the relations with the Gemini project and in that role a core
part of the Gemini supervisory board.

For his age, he was just thirty, he had already achieved a lot and was well
known amongst diplomatic circles and a valuable consultant for the project. It
was only natural that the organisers of the Rana mission asked him to join as
lead diplomat.

What that meant was not immediately clear to him at the moment they approached
him. Only in the night, when he was lying awake in his bed, he realised that tis
meant something historic. He could be the first human to meet an alien, standing
in one line with Neil Armstrong, the first man on the moon, Jennifer Woo, the
first woman on Mars and Mathieu Valinort, the first man on Proxima Centauri 3.
After realising that, he could not sleep at all anymore that night. He heard his
heart beating for six hours, then he stood up, took a shower and signed up for
the job.

The staff selection for the Rana mission continued while the training for the
crew members that were already appointed started. Next to actual training
sessions, Martin took part in strategy meetings together with some of the
brightest minds in philosophy and anthropology that could be found on earth.

The whole crew of the mission consisted of sociologists, linguists, biologists,
engineers and a handful of reporters next to the diplomatic corps of seven
people led by Martin.

On day zero, he stood in line with the others as Captain Persson gave her
departure speech. Martin was a little nervous and very proud not only because of
such an important mission he was sent to but also because hundreds of reporters
and dozens of cameras transmitted these moments to over eight billion people who
watched the event in the live stream.

But there was still a lot to achieve until the actual first contact. So he
quickly calmed down again and got distracted by the routines that followed. Only
an hour later, the Captain gave the order for departure and the engines ignited.
Another five minutes later, they passed into Transspace. The 30-ly journey would
take them one year, one year of further preparation on board.

Martin's crew and the other departments had a tight schedule. Physicists
analysed the available data from the probe's information stream from the Rana
system. Martin's diplomats and negotiators went through all their strategies and
worked together with the Sociologists on studies about settlements and derived
potential social structures that could give them hints about the character of
"their" aliens. For now, they called them "the Rana'ans".

<!-- BIS HIER -->

Arriving in the Rana system was less spectacular than Martin thought. The
blackness of the space there followed the blackness between the systems. The
only difference was a star that shone a bit brighter than usual. They still had
two days until they were supposed to reach the orbit.

Martin also knew that it was not planned to meet the aliens directly after their
arrival. The plan was a detailed half-year observation mission before first
contact. But it was a change for good for the surprisingly impatient diplomat.

He was not the mission lead, but in the council and so he had enough to do,
enough to think. They reached the orbit of Rana 3 and Martin's mood immediately
changed. Actually, everyone on the ship turned from impatient waiting mode to
planned activity. Probes were prepared. Camouflage surveillance drones were sent
to the ground. Translator systems were set up. Teams started to make theories.
And Martin absorbed the information for his first contact strategy.

---

The following weeks brought inflation of knowledge. The probes on the surface of
Rana 3 worked perfectly. The translator AI learned the new languages within a
week. In the same week, the crew gathered geographical and sociological data.
After that, the working teams augmented their observations with statements from
the aliens.

They learned that they called themselves the Kret. Martin was concentrated.
Within three weeks, he and his team had to learn about the Krets' history,
preferences and habits. Those were the remaining bits that went into the grand
plan to get in contact.

All the rest was already worked out on Earth and during the long trip. Which
landing place they would choose, which people they would pick, all of that was
well known. But the things that mattered most, what he would say, was Martins's
decision alone. A truly giant leap for mankind, but also himself.

Now, a team of seven was sitting in a shuttle waiting to be transported to the
first contact.

---

For Martin, the first contact was a life-changing moment, but the weeks, months
and years after that were the most work-intensive. He became the first
ambassador representing Earth as a whole while over there on his old home planet
they still thought in dimensions of states and corporations.

In the beginning, he organised a team that took care of the contacts, the
announcements and the events on the planet and he quickly became the face of
humanity for the Kret people. Later, the team became an office as more
terrestrial ships arrived and later Kret and Humans together created a beautiful
building for the representation of earth in the Rana star system.

The whole administration consisted of 50% humans and 50% Kret. There were
permanent representatives of all major Kret clans involved, but also many
helpers, craftsmen and counselors.

Martin was famous on two planets and he was very proud of that. But he also
stayed humble throughout the years just as every diplomat should.

---

Martin and the other leads of the first contact crew regularly spent their
evenings together with dinner and discussions since the launch of the mission.
One day, about four months after the first contact, Amanda, the chief biologist,
came out of nowhere with a topic. "These are no aliens", she said and got the
attention of everyone in the room.

The Kret were so similar to us in their phsiology, that people speculated from
the beginning. But now, Amanda said, there was proof.

"We have the results now", she continued. "we are gentically related. We don't
know every detail yet, but we are pretty sure that the split could have happened
about 100 to 200 thousand years ago."

The others had stopped eating and stared at her in a jaw-dropping way. It took
Martin a full minute to recover and ask his first question.

"What do you think happened one hundred thousand years ago?", he asked and the
speculations began.

---

## Mylar

<!--
Center of the universe
Hyperion
-->

## Marisol

<!--
Time Travel, A Failure
600 Generations
The first Men
-->
