---
superTitle: Worldbuilding
title: Transspace
description:
  Travelling faster than light, lifting and accellerating without errort and
  loss, time travelling. for all that, you need a well grounded theory in your
  sci-fi world building.
colorSpace: orange
startDate: 2022-06-08
date: 2022-11-08
related:
  - storylines/kret
  - storylines/the-bond
tags:
  - Space Travel
  - FTL
  - Worldbuilding
  - SciFi
  - Am Writing
  - Space Opera
---

If you don't want to wait years and generations until you reach another star
system, your science fiction stories have to imagine a propulsion system that
allows space travel that is faster than light. At least that is one possible
solution to the dilemma.

I needed that as well for my space operas, so I've created one a long time ago
in some of my short stories that I'd like to present to you here, too. One of
them, [The Bond](/storylines/the-bond) is already available.

I called my solution the nine-dimensional **Transspace**. And bear with me, the
idea is as old as my alien race - well, somehow the humans had to meet the
[Kret](/storylines/kret), right?

So no space opera without a faster-than-light drive. Let's finally dive into the
topic.

My idea was not to bend space or fly through a portal. I've just extended the
known spacetime with some useful additional dimensions (just like the real
physics did extensively for a while). Mainly I thought if the space is bending,
where does it bend into. So there had to be more than the observable dimensions.
That was my starting point.

A view of my imagined #multiverse simplified through the looking glass of
popular science comes with 9 dimensions.

- Three of them are the space dimensions - basically the ones we know.
- Three more are time dimensions. One of them is the linear time that we live
  in. The others are splitting up the world into a multiverse of possibilities.
- The last three are bound to gravity. Our existence is connected to two of
  these grav dimensions, so we live on a gravitational plane, so to speak.

I especially played around with the gravitational part of the theory Tshere are
immediate and reasonable applications for daily life like the possibility to
create ad-hoc force fields.

But there is also the possibility to access a higher plateau than the one we
live in, which changes some relations between mass and distance and allows
moving faster than light.

But let's start with the well known space dimensions first.

## Space

Space as a concept already existed in some form even in early antique theories.
Einstein gave them the twist that these dimensions are curved and that mass
affects the amount of bending.

The (imaginary) Transspace has given them another angle that changed or extended
some of our imagination of the three space dimensions.

The theory itself has been discovered in a computer-assisted way. An AI and a
quantum computer have calculated most of the equations' solutions.

One of these equations predicts that all dimensions fold into themselves. Very
simplified, you could say if you travel some billion years in the same
direction, you might be able to reach your starting point again. Just like on
the two dimensional surface of a sphere.

Some distant galaxy we observe with our telescope might even be our own milky
way in its early days.

## Gravity

It's getting one step more esoteric now. This part forms the perfect
technobabble for space story essentials like anti-gravity and FTL travel and
therefore marks the core of this worldbuilding exercise.

Next to the space dimensions, there are also three gravitational dimensions,
that our senses and brains can't perceive. Our existence incorporates two of
these dimensions. We're living on a gravitational plane.

Only on this plane, a meter is actually a meter and a kilogram is a kilogram.
And more importantly, lightspeed and the gravitational constant are what they
are. You move to another layer and things are different.

In the early days, after the theory had been postulated, people found out that a
certain geometry of force fields could form a tube or a portal that allows
switching to higher or lower gravity layers.

That made it possible to use the different perspectives over there and travel
faster - even surpass light speed. This has been taken over by engineers and it
didn't tale long to exploit this principle. But more on that later.

## Time

Let's finish the basic priciple first. The third group of dimensions after space
and gravity form the time continuum. The beautiful symmetry of the theory also
gives us three of them.

However, we humans can only sense one. We live our lives on a timeline moving
permanently in one direction.

The theory says that the other dimensions could contain alternate realities and
form the multiverse of possibilities. The timelines next to us contain a
sequence of events that is very similar to ours. Timelines further away are
forming significantly different realitites.

However, it is technically not yet possible to prove that. Many scientists work
on gravity effects, some also concentrate on the time effects of the theory. But
there was no breakthrough yet. All of this remains theory for now.

But the theory says that time travel is more complex than imagined. Going back
in time means contaminating a timeline, which automatically forms another one.
So you can't go back into your own timeline and cause paradoxa.

## The Discovery

The Theory of Transspace has been created by the dutch scientist **Marla Lay**.
She started to work on it during her PhD phase at the end of the 2080s and
published the groundbreaking paper in the year 2095.

The theory came with twelve base formulae and didn't contain any singularities
anymore like most of its predecessors. It was valif for all states of the
universe from quantum events to singularities. Yet it could be considered a
superset of the theory of relativity and the quantum theory for most aspects.
Now, we could also predict the edge cases.

Although Lay was in the lead, she already had a rather big staff and one of the
best quantum computer arrays to work with. And also later, she went through an
unorthodox path and decided to involve the best scientists and engineers in the
world to work on practical proof and potential technical inventions.

By the year 2095, Marla Lays theory was complete and confirmed correct, but the
practical implications as well as the potential to afect the world was either
unknown or mere speculation.

One year later, Lay with her good reputation and massive network of fellow
scientists could convince seven other leading physicists and three engineers of
a two-year project called "Enclave". **Enclave** started in 2096.

Together with 50 other doctoral candidates and technicians, they founded a
science think tank in Noordwijk, Netherlands, which provided infrastructure for
both theoretical context and practical construction and experimentation.

They kept their discoveries close until the designated end in the year 2098,
thus the project title Enclave.

The results were

- a working, faster than light propulsion model
- the so-called Grava drive that could project the first artificial force field
- and a science paper that was considered the seed of all later inventions

## G-Tubes

Two of the participants in the Enclave project, **Charles Frempton**, an
engineer and **Janice De Jong**, a data scientist, have worked on the
possibility to enter deeper layers of the gravitational dimensions. This
technology was considered the basis for Faster Than Light travel.

The problem had to be solved with raw computing power. It took them 2 years
during the enclave to find a geometric field that theoretically could have
worked. Towards the end, they could present the first prototype, that generated
a small 80 cm diameter portal to a 25 times deeper gravitational layer - making
everything 25 times faster than in our world without additional effort.

Later on, Frempton created a probe that fitted through the hole. It made it to
the moon in 42 minutes using normal ionic propulsion.

They called that tube geometry "G25" but that was not the end. Over the years,
other solutions have been found. The current maximum is G180k.

The conquering of the galaxy, that's what humanity was striving for after the
discovery of the G-Tubes. At that time five big mining companies had already
been the lords of the solar system.

The first human transspace flight in a G25 vessel engineered by two of the
enclave participants, Wells & Bellman, was started just 3 years later. It took
them 7 hours to Mars and they reached 3% of lightspeed.

The most versatile drive was invented in the 2140s, around 45 years later. The
so-called Dublin Drive was specified as G121 and took 16 h to Titan, the moon of
Saturn and an important outpost of Earth at that time.

Zodiac, one of the mining corporations found a specification for cargo and huge
ships at G1013 or G1k as it was called later. This drive was replaced only 21
years later by the G21k Starbase Drive, which itself created the kickstart into
colonising the neighbour star systems. It took about 1 week per 10 light years.

---

Things that travel at the speed of light have the most benefit from the anatomy
of spacetime that the teams on the Enclave workshops had discovered. So FTL
communication was one of the first thriving engineering fields that emerged.

Even the G-Tubes that were useless for humans had been good enough to send
probes, robots and drones into transspace. The first series of transspace
communication phalanxes had settled at G171, which brought the moon into
high-speed real-time communication ranges of 8ms latency. And the delay for
communication from Mars went down to 3 seconds on average, good enough for live
streams. The communication in the whole solar system had changed completely
after the first generation.

Today all colonies are connected through a fourth-generation communication
system running on the mentioned G180k. This renders a reaction time of 22 ms
with the Titan colony and 90 minutes with a science station in the Rana system
about 30 Ly away.

## Force Fields

On an early milestone date, January 1st 2100, a company formed out of the
enclave think tank launched a product they called "Grava", a brand name that
would become a synonym for force field tech afterwards.

Within two years, all excavators in the construction business had been replaced.
Other companies licensed the technology and developed highly efficient planes,
air trains and hoppers.

In a modern space hopper, you will find 16 different Grava appliances. One of
them is responsible for a constant force vector, another for acceleration and
again others for accident protection or compensation of acceleration forces.

The space travel sector with its formerly expensive and risky launches profited
the most from the new Grava-based hoppers.

## Time Travel

The last chapter of this worldbuilding exercise focuses on things not invented
yet. Let's go back to time travelling. Even 100 years after the enclave,
scientists have no practical clue how to do it, although some groups have worked
on it since the beginning.

The current state of the art speaks of two devices. The first is a temporal
converter (or Verter). It allows to slide along the regular time axis into the
future and the past. The other one is called temporal polarizer (or Poler). This
allows going from one timeline to another. It can find your own home timeline
again.

Both devices have been confirmed by theories and micro experiments. But on a
large scale, their complexity exceeds the capacities in the known space. It
seems as if the universe could prevent a paradox just by making it too
complicated to execute.

> This marks the end of the storyline. So who wants to dive into the first
> missions now? It's time to meet some (well known) aliens, isn't it?
