---
superTitle: World 2
title: Veganism & Agriculture
subTitle: Part 2 of the Series About the Climate Crisis
description:
  Deep-diving into the most burning topic of our time in this series of
  articles, this part focuses on agriculture, food production and the vegan
  diet.
colorSpace: yellow
startDate: 2022-08-18
date: 2023-03-29
related:
  - storylines/world-2
  - storylines/traffic
tags:
  - Climate Crisis
  - Veganism
  - Diet
  - Agriculture
---

People usually don't believe that our current food consumption is a major player
in the climate crisis. I have to admit that the connections are very
complicated. They're going from methane in the digestion cycle of cows through
transport to rainforest clearing in Brazil. I'd like to get a grip on that
myself. That's why I'd like to dedicate part two of my posting series about the
climate crisis to this topic.

On top of that, the climate is only one of many plagues meat consumption causes.
It's also the main driver of the decline in biodiversity. It causes serious
health issues driven by lies triggered by a cruel meat and milk lobby. and by
the way, it's completely unethical.

I myself chose to be a vegan eight or nine years ago and I've learned a lot
about the other topics along the way. The possibilities for a vegan diet have
increased ever since. The topic is booming. I'm sure it's not a trend that will
go away anytime soon.

## Introduction

I'd like to start my journey into veganism with a look into the future, it's a
sci-fi magazine after all. We are on a camping ground, mainly because I'm
writing this from the side of a camper van. 50 years fast forward.

The old couple next to us is classy. They drink their red wine from proper
glasses. And they sit in front of a miniature screen watching TV shows each
evening. I haven't seen such a thing for a long time. But they enjoy it. He, a
man with a white long beard and a lot of tattoos, is a smoker. But he's not into
cigarettes. I haven't seen such stupid things for decades either. No. He's
smoking his food.

For the whole day he's following a ritual. He prepared a seitan dough with
dozens of spices, precooked it and now it's under the smoker. Soon, it will be
roasted on the grill for the final touch.

What you get in the market, he said, is all fake. You have to do it yourself.
It's as cheap as flour, dead simple and the tastiest thing you'll ever eat.

Then they invited us for dinner.

The previous thoughts point out the inevitable, the future we're steering to. We
will develop into a vegan world. It's not an option to choose from in the
future. It's the opposite. It will be a very expensive option to eat meat, eggs
or dairy products from time to time. And as it has no additional value, people
will just stop doing it.

While many of us are still in denial, we are already transitioning into that way
of life. Farmers see more and more problems with livestock farming. Feed gets
more expensive and subsidies from the states will become less and less. On the
other hand, vegan products become more versatile and are healthier by design.
People notice that spices are vegan and therefore vegan food does not taste like
nothing. Also the rituals built around meat - barbecues, sunday roast and full
monty breakfast will have worthy replacements even without french cream sauce,
cheese finishers or omelette.

It is happening, we know that. And now it's time to dive into the why.

## Dimensions

I just want to give you some relation between nature and livestock.

- 4% of mammal-related biomass is bound to **wild animals**.

- 36% are **humans**. We outweigh the rest of the animals by a factor of nine.

- 60% is **livestock**. The farming animals that we use as food.

The biggest part there is **cattle**, which by coincidence is also a large
source of methane and therefore plays a huge role in the greenhouse effect.

Another overall side effect is that we use more and more land for farming, i.e
growing soy for feeding the animals and grazing itself. This devastatingly
affects the planet's biodiversity. It also shrinks the rainforest (e.g. in
Brazil), which approaches a tipping point if it's getting reduced by another
18%. At that point, it can't maintain its microclimate anymore and will dry out.

---

Some people say that moving to a vegan diet would have one of the biggest
positive effects for a private person's footprint. But in public discussions, it
is almost never mentioned.

The complex set of factors is touching all aspects of the climate crisis and
thus the topic is even harder to grasp as the climate change as a whole.

The most comprehensive and obvious part plays a significant role. Cows are
producing methane. About 30% of the total planetary emission. But this is only
responsible for 2% of the green house effect. The same amount goes to Nitrogen
fertilizers for feed production. But many other effects are also included:

- Production
- Transport
- Deforestation

The current estimation of the overall
[share of the meat and dairy industry](https://www.umweltbundesamt.de/daten/land-forstwirtschaft/beitrag-der-landwirtschaft-zu-den-treibhausgas#treibhausgas-emissionen-aus-der-landwirtschaft)
is **14%**. When we only fight with the sources of the emissions and don't
change our habits, the share will rise to **23%-27% in 2030** and up to **80% in
the year 2050**. For more details and sources, I recommend the german
publication
[Fleischatlas](https://www.boell.de/sites/default/files/2022-01/Boell_Fleischatlas2021_V01_kommentierbar.pdf).

It's hard to change the behaviour of the people. But in this sector, we have
proof that it's inevitable.

## Let's Set It in Relation

Time for a small recap session. We found out that meat and dairy have a 14%
share in climate change. That brings the average German down from 539% of the
available budget to 464%. Solid but apparently only a part of the equation.

==> <calculator> vegan share

But this improvement is available right now for everyone. It just has to make
click in your head.

Mass meat and dairy production on the other hand comes with a much bigger
footprint in another crisis: Biodiversity. I know. Yet another crisis doesn't
even fit in our heads anymore. But fighting the climate crisis the right way
might come with many synergies with stopping the extinction of species, when you
do it the right way. It will be worth it, because in a climate catastrophe, many
of us will suffer, but after a biodiversity ELE all humans will be wiped out.

## Pillars of Veganism

Going vegan has three pillars. In the last episodes, we have covered some ground
on one of them - sustainability and climate protection. In the next passages,
I'd also dive into the other aspects. So let's start with speciesism and animal
rights.

**Speciesism** in its clearest form is when you love your little designer dog
and at the same time have fur around your neck from one of its
ancestors/siblings. But it's more than that.

It's baked (wrong word, I know, butchered would be better) even into the
language. In English, you differentiate between cow and beef, calf and veal, pig
and pork.

Also, meat is an abstraction. A ridiculous argument against vegans is that they
substitute meat with "identically looking alternatives", while a sausage looks
nothing at all like the original. With the abstraction, it's wiped from our
conscious mind.

People even think that organic meat - where animals have 30 cm more space would
be less cruel. No. Someone cuts these throats as well in the end.

The aspect of respecting **animal rights** is the most important part of
veganism. Two simple narratives from different perspecitves describe the
situation best. Let's call it cat/cow according to the Yoga position.

If you've ever lived with a pet, e.g. a cat, you automatically get to know their
character. I believe there is no way to unsee that the animal has a personality
that must be protected. They're a friend. They depend on you, speak in their own
language with you and you understand most of it. They express thoughts, feelings
and needs.

And on the other hand, if you've ever looked into the processes in a
slaughterhouse (I recommend the documentary "Cowspiracy" for a start), you
immediately know that it is utterly wrong what's happening there. It will be
impossible for many people to accept these conditions just for a steak.

Even without written law, this will become clear. Animal Rights are not up for
discussion. There will be cases where it doesn't seem that obvious. So it's also
very simple to draw the line. Just include all animals.

## Health

This storyline about veganism started with the climate crisis and already came
to its centre, animal rights. But there's one more pillar to cover: health.
Let's start with a part that is mentioned less often. Most of the recent
pandemics are caused by transmission paths that involve meat.

With today's hygiene standards, we can more or less exclude direct transmissions
as in the medieval plague. The only remaining vectors are mosquitos/insects with
malaria as an example. The rest of the pandemic incidents went through steps
that involve meat production and consumption with horrendously expensive side
effects.

Take corona as an example. The patient-0 transmission can be traced back pretty
precisely in the meantime. It can be located with a precision of five meters
around one spot on an open raw meat market (a so-called "wet market") in Wuhan,
China. The original carrier was a bat with probably another host (Tanukis are in
the discussion) in-between. All avoidable in a vegan world.

The reason why I became a vegan in the first place was my personal health. I was
not sick, but I felt my veins getting plugged with cholesterol and my metabolism
getting enriched with poison. And then, one day, I took the decision to stop. At
that point, I didn't know all the details. But I felt better day by day.

There were 800 significant studies about meat in 1015 already and it's well
known that animal protein is carcinogenic. The China Study (I also recommend the
book by T. Colin Campbell) is about a region in China where people were
coincidentally living vegan and could be examined in all areas of physiology.
The result was stunning. 80 - 90 % of all cancer and heart diseases and diabetes
cases can be avoided with a vegan diet.

So why don't we all live vegan then? This is where lobbyism comes in. For
generations, we are taught that milk is healthy and meat is needed to feed our
brains. Now meat production and pharmaceutics are unstoppable trillion dollar
industries.

## Wrap Up

Veganism is no religion, as many claim. I think it's two things: a set of rules
that help you easily navigate through the giant stream of consumption. When you
follow them, you most likely do the right thing for your body, the environment
and in any case for the animals. And it's a mindset. It's the thought that we
evolved from other animals and therefore we can't draw a line.

In this article, I've discovered what effects dairy and meat have on us and our
environment. it is inevitable that the whole human race is more and more
acquiring the vegan mindset.

This is not a "we should one day" or an "if we did that, the world would be
better". No. It is an existing process. This transformation is already
happening. If you take a closer look, you will see that this great opposition is
only the last childish rebellion against common sense.
