---
superTitle: World 2
title: Energy & Dimensions
subTitle: Part One of the Series About the Climate Crisis
description:
  What are the biggest problems of our time and how do we overcome them? World 2
  is a deep dive into the climate crisis. This first storyline focuses on the
  complex problems around energy creation and consumption.
colorSpace: lime
startDate: 2022-08-01
date: 2023-04-04
related:
  - storylines/vegan
  - storylines/traffic
tags:
  - Energy
  - Climate Crisis
  - Coal
---

## The Start

Although this styoryline is not fiction at all, it's anyway about the future.
What do we have to do to have a future? How can we save our planet? Do we have
to re-invent the world? Is it a re-birth, the second incarnation of world,
**world 2**, so to say? Or is it actually not that complicated?

So it's all about the Seldon'esque crisis we're facing at the moment, **the
climate catastrophe**. I'd especially like to go into three different streams:

- **Transport**: Even besides its damage potential to the world climate (and
  this includes traditional cars and EVs), owning and driving so many cars harms
  us in many other ways. So it's worth a look on its own.

- **Diet and agriculture**: Food and food production are one of the big columns
  of reasons for the climate crisis. Everyone knows that. But it's also the
  hardest to give up.

- **Energy production**: Another topic with hundreds of side effects. We wage
  wars and fraternize with despots to get resources to produce energy. And we're
  ahead of another round of exploitation of the African continent.

## Energy

For [transport](/storylines/traffic) and [agriculture](/storylines/vegan), I
have created separate storylines. The pure basics of energy production,
consumption and management is the part that this article will focus on. So let's
dive in.

Energy, on the one hand, is by far the biggest driver of the climate crisis. On
the other hand, the region of central Europe faces another crisis fired by heat
and drought and by the war in Ukraine and our dependency on Russian gas and oil.

Our energy demand spreads into four more or less distinct sectors:

- electricity (43%)
- industrial consumption (24%)
- traffic (21%)
- heating (12%)

More detailed numbers with sources will follow. The whole climate crisis is much
more complex than only turning energy management into its green alternatives. It
entails other more efficient greenhouse gases than CO₂, deforestation and
tipping points.

During of the creation of this article in the form of a series of postings
spreading half a year, I had the feeling that the headlines around this copmplex
were oveertaking each other. War, pipelines, catastrophes, political changes,
protests, science reports - the topics piled up almost on an hourly basis.

## The Problem Chain

Even if you touch the surface of those building blocks, you already see that any
of these fields is utterly complex and never black and white. So before I go
into more detail on some of them, let's go back to the basic problem.

Earth thankfully has a greenhouse effect. It would be a
[cold dead place](https://youtu.be/oLddYrmClQw) of -18°C if it wasn't there.
This effect is caused by gases in the atmosphere that are transparent in visual
light and opaque in infrared light. Mainly water vapour (with short term
effects) and CO₂ (with complex long-term lifecycles).

We have increased the amount of CO₂ dramatically in the last 100 years - from
320 to 420 ppm (by 30%) in the last 60 years alone. We have seen that Earth is
significantly heating up. The CO₂ pollution is caused by burning fossile fuels -
like coal (C) or gas (CH<sub>4</sub>).

We use the energy coming from there for global wealth, so we can't just stop it
without losing this wealth.

## Dimensions

A problem that I have with the climate catastrophe lies in the magnitudes of
numbers. When someone says "this emits 5 kg of CO₂ equivalent", what does that
mean? It's totally abstract.

So I think, we should make it more concrete and comparable. When the
[IPCC](https://www.ipcc.ch/), the main organisation that tracks climate change,
released their first reports, they came up with a budget that we have left if we
want to stay below the 1.5°C. It's **420 billion tons**. This is the amount we
can emit until the wold heats up by 1,5 degrees. We want to spread this budget
until 2050.

That was the catchy and easy to remember claim on the Paris climate agreement
(closed on December 12th, 2015). **1,5 degrees until 2050**. This also means
zero - carbon neutral - after 2050.

Divided by 30 and the average expected population of 8,73 billion people, this
makes 1,6 tons per year for every one of us. This is my new reference.

==> <image> budget

Source:
[(atmosfair.de)](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/green_travel/annual_climate_budget/)

Now this is a value we can work with. We have a budget and we can put everything
in relation to the budget. So I've decided to create a small calculator that
spits out memes with chart graphics. Here we go.

==> <calculator> budget

Source:
[(ourworldindata.org)](https://ourworldindata.org/co2-and-greenhouse-gas-emissions#co2-and-greenhouse-gas-emissions-country-profiles)

So we're emitting five times as much as we are allowed to. In this scenario of
thirty years from 2020 to 2050, the overall budget is allready used up by 2026
for europeans and is about to exceeded right now for Americans. For me, this
fact was mindblowing as it showed that we must act now, not just in 2030. As a
side note, it might be worth mentioning, that China is the only candidate in
this list, who's emissions are rising.

To get used to this metric, let's do some more comparisons.

==> <calculator> coal

Source:
[Umweltbundesamt](https://www.umweltbundesamt.de/daten/energie/energiebedingte-emissionen#energiebedingte-kohlendioxid-emissionen-durch-stromerzeugung)

You see that coal has a huge impact on our emissions, whis is completely out of
proportion compared the the energy it is producing.

The primary energy consumption in 2020 was 143 GJ/Person\*a. The coal power
plant Niederaußem contributed about 0,7% to that energy but it uses up 22,2% of
our annual CO₂ Budget.

In comparison, an average gas turbine emits 670 g/kWh. In Germany, we consume 65
TWh/a through gas, which is 12,6%. The whole gas sector uses up 32,7% of our
budget.

Germany is worldwide number one in lignite mining - in absolute numbers, not per
capita - 10% more than number two, China. A part of it is also exported and
consumed by people outside Germany.

**This impressively shows that we have a huge structural problem that can't be
solved by individuals that take care of their footprints. This is a topic for
politicians.**

Let's look at another example:

==> <calculator> flights

Sources:

- [Atmosfair](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/offset/fix/) has a good calculator for
  flight emissions. You can also tweak the values and try business instead of
  economy class.
- It was hard to find details on private jet emissions. There is no calculator
  for that, but I found an
  [article on tagesschau.de](https://www.tagesschau.de/investigativ/ndr/privatjets-treibhausgase-klima-101.html)

So much for the exercise to get into those numbers. I will surely reuse the
calculator on some other pages in the future. One last comparison to round up
this section:

Our nearest CO₂ sink, the German forest absorbs **46,4%** of our budget.

## How Much Do We Have to Save?

The budget is gone by 2050 or earlier when we continue to live as we're doing
now. At that point, we are not supposed to emit anything anymore. What is left
is what the trees, moors and oceans absorb.

Numbers say that about 1,9 Gt go into vegetation and 2,9 Gt are absorbed by the
oceans. That's 4,8 Gt or 34% of our current budget from a worldwide perspective.
So our simple task is to reduce our emissions from 539% to 34%.

The problem seems to be approached ved in three steps:

- **Electrification**: The main energy source is supposed to be electricity
  (e.g. electric cars for transport or heat pumps for heating your living room).
  This step decouples the energy creation from the energy consumption and gives
  our economy a lot of flexibility to regulate itself. Exception: the heavy
  industry will need green hydrogen for their high energy density demand.
- **Green Electricity**: When all power comes from electricity, this must of
  course turn carbon neutral. Coal and gas must be replaced by wind, solar,
  biomass and water. This branch of work packages has also already been
  started - so both can and have to happen at the same time. We have no time to
  lose.
- **Saving Energy**: Who would have guessed that infinite growth is not
  sustainable? But there's also good news. Electric cars for example are much
  more efficient than combustion engines. But this is not enough. All processes
  that we invented have to be revisited and optimized. Does this mean, everyone
  of us has to sacrifice comfort? No. Many things can be more easily made
  efficient on a principle level rather than the consumer level. We just have to
  want it and facilitate it through a suitable political environment.

## Heating

Another scenario: An average person needs 47,7 m² of living space in Germany. A
20-year-old house has an average standard of 75 kWh/m²a. If you use gas, this
equals an emission of 2,3 t/a or almost 150% of the budget. Gigantic. If you
live in a passive house, you can reduce that to 30%.

We seem to have usable solutions for electricity and transport, as it seems. But
this third sector, heating our living rooms, seems to be the biggest challenge
for carbon neutrality. There are millions of buildings with a lot of inefficient
built-in technology. So the problem is highly decentral. At the moment, the
share of energy sources is

- 41 % gas
- 17% oil
- 18% electricity
- 8% district heating
- 15% renewable energy

This contains about 70% of fossile energy sources. The renewable part mainly
comes from wood, which also doesn't scale well and also has unwanted short-term
emissions. So the structural problem is immense and the costs will have to be
paid by the owners of the buildings.

There are alternatives. Geothermal heat pumps will have to be introduced
wherever possible, heat exchangers must become standard and controlled district
heating must me massively extended.

The current in-house technology is based on water as a carrier, which makes it
difficult to exchange with more intelligent air conditioning systems.

## Savings in the Heating Sector

The major step here is not the switch of technologies. Especially with our
bulidings, we can also achieve a lot by saving energy.

Saving energy in heating does not mean, we have to live in the cold from now on
and everyone whose livingroom has more than 19 degrees is a climate change
denier. No. Savings come from better insulation.

At the moment, the range is wide. While a typical old building needs 250
kWh/m²a, a passive house usually uses a tenth of it (less than 25 kWh/m²a).
Regulations of 1995 still allowed around 200.

But insulation measures have a problem. The physics is pretty fragile. If you
insulate only one part (e.g. better windows) or if you do it wrong (e.g.
insulate on the inside of the wall), mould is coming. So DIY is usually ruled
out and a heavy investment is needed.

There is an obligation to renovate in Germany and these laws are likely to be
tightened in the future. But this is another cost item on the shoulders of
property owners.

Therefore the whole sector has to be controlled by a sophisticated subsidising
program from the state, that distributes the money to the people and projects
who need it most, millions of times in the next years. But the sector will
remain the slowest, also because cars are switched more often than houses.

## The End of the World (As We Know It)

Saving the world from the climate crisis is the most pressing and demanding
topic of our time. As you have seen, it needs radical restructurings in almost
all economic sectors, it even needs restructuring in our society. But I can
assure you that it would need even more investment and restructuring if we
didn't do anything. Yet it's highly complex.

Well, collecting all the data alone was pretty complex. I've done this in a
series of posts in 2022 and early 2023 and I spawned three Storylines to be able
to cover every aspect in enough depth. Besides this one about Energy as a whole,
as mentioned before, there is another one about [traffic](/storylines/traffic)
and a [vegan series](/storylines/vegan), that I can recommend.

I've found out a lot along the way. But it's not enough.

This "not enough" has two sides. What we're doing right now is by far **not
enough**. Humans are short-sighted. The profit of the next quarter is still more
important than the loss in ten years. We are so far behind that we can only hope
to end with 2 degrees more temperature in 2050.

The second side is knowledge. The problem stays utterly difficult. Tipping
points here, synergies there. So a bunch of small posts are **not enough** to
get a grasp on the topic, although everyone should know about this. Knowledge is
the key to solving the problem.

I'll try to continue to compress the information that I find into small bits.
This series is over, but I will come up with new material.

Let's see if we continue to steer towards the end of the world or if we find a
proper navigation device to male the u-turn.
