---
title: The Moon is a Harsh Mistress
subTitle: Robert Heinlein
description:
  The 1966 novel about the mechanics of a revolution is one of the classics of
  science fiction.
date: 2023-10-16
colorSpace: cyan
tags:
  - SciFi
  - Robert Heinlein
  - War
---

Many New Wave (around 1964-1983) sc-fi stories are special. Very often the focus
not so much on the technical innovations or new concepts. They rather transpose
real human circumstances into the future to amplify them or observe them under
cleaner conditions like a microscope does.

The [Dispossessed](/posts/reviews/01-the-dispossessed) (a later new wave age
novel, that I also reviewed recently) is very much like that. But the all time
classic "The Moon is a Harsh Mistress" is even more so. The whole story is not
so much about the moon or living on the moon, this is just a side effect. The
main theme is revolution and libertarian ideas.

Heinlein describes the mechanics of revolutionary movements very precisely. You
could never observe it in such detail in real life, but the mechanics become
much clearer this way. Therefore the book is a must-read for anyone who wants to
understand how revolutions work.

This novel as an early representative of the New Wave might be one of the
prototypes for such social topics. Others followed. Some with more or less of a
mic between present time social topics and future tech. Examples that come to my
mind that surely picked up the theme are Asimovs Robot series (using robots to
get behind the essence of humanity) or Philip K. Dicks Man in the High Castle
(using an alternative history to explore the mechanics of fascism).

But on the other hand, probably the pure tech stories just didn't age so well
and thus got more and more removed from the reading lists. Heinlen's technical
parts for example are partly very up to date (he describes the concept of AI
very precisely) and outdated (looking at the communication and data transfer
technology). Thus in some ways, we live in a future much more phantastic than
the NEw Wave authors could imagine.
