---
name: The Radio
year: 2023
week: 1
day: 3
---

Peter was hesitant as he approached the radio device. It was his guilty
conscience speaking, but there also was a little devil sitting on his other
shoulder, curiosity. So he turned on the old chrome switch on the left.

The lights on the strange displays turned on and a loud white noise came out of
the speakers. Peter fell into panic. Quickly he searched for the volume knob,
finally found it and reduced the volume. Puh, that was close.

But then, after a thorough look at all the buttons and switches, he remembered
what his father showed him the other day. With the one on the right, you adjust
the wavelength - yes, that was the word - to find channels where people were
chatting.

Firstly, Peter memorized the current wavelength to be able to turn it back in
the end, 27.335. Then he started to search for channels.

On one of them, he heard someone talking, who sounded like his neighbour, Mr
White. He spoke to his baby son Josua. That was strange, so he kept listening
for a while.

---

## ğŸ‡©ğŸ‡ª German Version

Peter zÃ¶gerte, als er sich dem FunkgerÃ¤t nÃ¤herte. Es war sein schlechtes
Gewissen, aber auf seiner anderen Schulter saÃŸ auch ein kleiner Teufel, seine
Neugier. Also betÃ¤tigte er den alten Chromschalter auf der linken Seite.

Die Lichter auf den seltsamen Anzeigen gingen an und ein lautes weiÃŸes Rauschen
kam aus den den Lautsprechern. Peter verfiel in Panik. Schnell suchte er den
LautstÃ¤rkeregler, fand ihn schlieÃŸlich und drehte das Rauschen leise. Puh, das
war knapp.

Aber dann, nachdem er sich alle KnÃ¶pfe und Schalter genau angesehen hatte,
erinnerte er sich was ihm sein Vater neulich gezeigt hatte. Mit dem rechten
verstellt man die die WellenlÃ¤nge - ja, das war das Wort - um KanÃ¤le zu finden,
auf denen Leute plauderten.

Peter merkte sich erst einmal die aktuelle WellenlÃ¤nge, um sie dann wieder
zurÃ¼ckdrehen zu kÃ¶nnen: 27,335. Dann begann er, nach KanÃ¤len zu suchen.

Auf einem von ihnen hÃ¶rte er jemanden reden, der wie sein Nachbar, Herr WeiÃŸ,
klang. Er sprach mit seinem kleinen Sohn Josua. Das war seltsam, also hÃ¶rte er
eine Weile zu.
