---
name: The Fortress and the Castle
year: 2023
week: 20
day: 3
---

Then something happened. While the stone in Asimov's hand continued transforming
into a robot and before he could show Peter his second trick, Asimov noticed
something going on in the background that alerted him. He turned around and also
Peter saw it when he zoomed out on his pad viewer. The large buildings in the
background that stood on either side of the crater rim started to move.

Asimov and his friends lived in a place that was guarded by high mountain
ranges. One day, Asimov had explained that they were inside a crater and that
things were green here but grey and brown on the outside. And there were two
large buildings besides the hut. One looked like a fortress, dark and angry. The
other one was a castle, large and white with many small crenelations and fine
architecture.

What Peter saw in his pad was that the fortress seemed to stand up. He had to
look twice. The building moved and seemed to spit small portions of fire toward
the castle. These gigantic houses were fighting.

## ğŸ‡©ğŸ‡ª German Version

Dann geschah etwas. WÃ¤hrend sich der Stein in Asimovs Hand weiter in einen
Roboter verwandelte und bevor er Peter seinen zweiten Trick zeigen konnte,
bemerkte Asimov, dass im Hintergrund etwas passierte, das ihn in Alarm
versetzte. Er drehte sich um. Peter sah es auch, als er mit seinem Pad-Viewer
herauszoomte. Die groÃŸen GebÃ¤ude im Hintergrund, die auf beiden Seiten des
Kraterrandes standen, begannen sich zu bewegen.

Asimov und seine Freunde lebten an einem Ort, der von hohen Gebirgsketten
umgeben war. Eines Tages hatte Asimov ihnen erklÃ¤rt, dass sie sich in einem
Krater befanden und dass hier alles grÃ¼n war, wÃ¤hrend es auÃŸen grau und braun
aussah. Neben der HÃ¼tte gabe es zwei groÃŸe GebÃ¤ude. Das eine sah aus wie eine
Festung, dunkel und bÃ¶se. Das andere war ein Schloss, groÃŸ und weiÃŸ mit vielen
kleinen Zinnen und einer schÃ¶nen Architektur.

Peter sah in seinem Pad, dass die Burg aufzustehen schien. Er musste zweimal
hinsehen. Die Festung bewegte sich und spuckte kleine Portionen Feuer in
Richtung des Schlosses. Diese gigantischen HÃ¤user kÃ¤mpften.
