---
name: Flying Louis
year: 2023
week: 13
day: 1
---

Hello everyone, I'm Louis Guillory, Loo-Eee Gee-Yoo-Ree, that's how you
pronounce it. My grannie said, it's french, but my family lives here in New
Orleans. Our ancestors were great sailors and explorers from Europe. I'd also
like to see the world someday, but mom didn't let me out of the house yet.

Woah, but here in the house there is already so much to discover. Our family
alone is huge. My grannie, my grandpa and his father, the wise Dr. Guillory live
with us. I have nine siblings and at least as many uncles and aunts and
countless cousins. Many of them live here in Mansion, our home. And there are
also our neighbours, the Landrys and not to forget the evil Fontenots, who own
the bar.

Another woah, I almost forgot to mention the most important thing. I am a
teenage mouse. Well, that's not the important thing, that's normal, I guess. But
yesterday, I have found out that I can fly. I was hovering, I swear.

## ğŸ‡©ğŸ‡ª German Version: Der schewbende Louis

Hallo zusammen, ich bin Louis Guillory, Luu-Iiih Gie-o-Rie, so spricht man das
aus. Meine Oma sagte, es sei franzÃ¶sisch, aber meine Familie lebt hier in New
Orleans. Unsere Vorfahren waren groÃŸe Seefahrer und Entdecker aus Europa. Eines
Tages mÃ¶chte ich auch die Welt sehen, aber meine Mom hat mich noch nicht aus dem
Haus gelassen.

Woah, aber hier im Haus gibt es schon so viel zu entdecken. Unsere Familie
allein ist riesig. Meine Oma, mein Opa und sein Vater, der weise Dr. Guillory,
leben bei uns. Ich habe neun Geschwister und mindestens genauso viele Onkel und
Tanten und unzÃ¤hlige Cousins und Cousinen. Viele von ihnen leben hier in
Mansion, unserem Zuhause. Und dann sind da auch noch unsere Nachbarn, die
Landrys und nicht zu vergessen die bÃ¶sen Fontenots, denen die Bar gehÃ¶rt.

Und noch etwas, fast hÃ¤tte ich das Wichtigste vergessen. Ich bin eine Maus. Nun
ja, das ist nicht das Wichtigste, das ist ganz normal, denke ich. Aber gestern
habe ich herausgefunden, dass ich fliegen kann. Ich habe geschwebt, ich schwÃ¶re
es.
