---
date: 2023-09-01
title: Veganism & World Building
description:
  - 'First Edition: a big experiment'
  - 'Veganism: how our food choices affect the planet'
  - 'The Mesh: world building for a cyberspace universe'
colorSpace: cyan
related:
  - storylines/vlad
---

# Welcome to Edition One

This page has started as a micro fiction experiment, 1.000 characters a day that
form small chapters of short stories or non fiction essays. But I've noticed
that the concept is a bit too restricting for vivid storytelling. So I've
altered the concept a little.

Welcome to **OCTAHEDRON**WORLD, the magazine. Once a month, I showcase one or
two new long form posts, like short stories or essays, together with all
spontaneous short form posts of the month and hopefully one or the other
surprise. Let's see.

But let's also dive in to the details of edition one.

---

## World 2: Vegan Edition

During the past months I wanted to collect as much information as possible about
the most pressing topic of our time, the **climate crisis**. The result was a
series of three essays, that made the topic tangible for me. And I hope, it
might also help one or the other of you to get a better understanding of the
context.

This article here is part two of the series. It covers agriculture and the food
chain.

==> storylines/vegan

## The Mesh: Worldbuilding for a Cyberpunk Universe

The second longer essay I want to share offers a glimpse into the process of
world building. It shows some details that have made it to one or the other
short story already and will surely be featured in more of them in the future. I
have several others of that kind, but this one here is about the Mesh, my
virtual world featured in a cyberpunk universe.

==> storylines/mesh

## Other Posts

==> posts/tropes/04-types-of-scifi

==> posts/predictions/07-natural-catastrophes

==> posts/reviews/05-old-mans-war

==> posts/tropes/05-mars

## Preview: Edition Two

I'm looking forward to part two already. The content is already in preparation.
Among other topics, you'll find

- **Transspace**: another world building exercise. This time I've tried to
  create the surroundings for space opera stories and other SciFi with FTL
  drives, antigravity and time travelling.
- **Elements: Earth**: A really old story idea of mine is slowly forming.
  Elements consists of four parts that I will spread over several magazine
  editions. Part one will come in the next month. If you have been following my
  former posts, you might have an idea, but this will be a big rewrite to a
  short story.

## Further Reads

Because it fits so well to the vegan topic. Here's the previously released essay
about the climate crisis titled "World 2". The article about veganism can be
considered as a spin off.

==> storylines/world-2
