---
date: 2023-10-27
title: Elements & Transspace
description:
  - 'Elements Earth: part one of a road trip to hell and back'
  - 'Transspace: inventing the FTL drive, world building for a space opera
    universe'
colorSpace: red
edition: 2
---

# Finally Fiction

For edition one, I still picked two essays, one of them even with a topic from
the real world. This time we already dive one level deeper. I have some urban
fantasy material for you. However as I have to supply you with some more basics,
this edition also contains another world building article.

I hope you enjoy the read and look forward to future journeys into the
universes, that are inspired by those world building exercises.

---

## Elements: Earth, The first fiction in the magazine

Ages ago, probably a decade or two in the past, I had the idea of a book about a
special road trip. It was all about travelling to purgatory and hell, meeting
some angels and demons and then return again. The trip was supposed to go
through all elements from earth, through the water into the hellfires and back
again through the air. Metaphors and references popped up immediately as I
thought about the theme first, from Jules Verne to the Constantine comics.

But while writing, it usually deviates into something independent. Here's part
one, **Earth**, the other three will follow in the next editions and it will all
end up as a mix between a short story and a novella.

==> storylines/elements-earth

## Transspace: World building, but this time for the infinity of space

The roots of this essay are even older than the Elements story. I started to
think about bridging the gap between stars when I first read sci-fi and space
opera novels in my youth and when I watched Start Trek for the first time. I
immediately thought about how all this could work, while learning at school that
light speed would be a barrier that could not be broken.

Well, in fiction it can, as it turns out.

==> storylines/transspace

## Other Posts

==> posts/mesh-tales/01-swoosh

==> posts/politics/01-mid-term-reports

## Preview: Edition Three

New content is of course already in the pipeline. Nhe next edition will be
special because I plan to publish a children's short story that is the
predecessor of a series I alredy posted here. Kamina, previously unreleased.

The second essay will be the counterpart to today's Transspace world building
exercise. Sooner or later, most soap operas have to deal with aliens and that
second post will tell the back story of my first alien race.

## Further Reads

While **Elements: Earth** is the first piece of fiction in the magazine, there
are some recommended finished stories already in the archives.

==> storylines/goliath

==> storylines/operator

==> storylines/vlad

## Edition 1

Do you want to give the first edition another read? Here's your way-back machine

==> editions/1
