---
date: 2023-12-21
title: Children and Aliens
description:
  - "Kamina: My first children's story, just in time for christmas"
  - "The Kret: More worldbuilding, this time you'll meet my first alien race"
colorSpace: carmine
edition: 3
---

# Children & Aliens

It took me a while to get to the third edition, but it will be just in time for
christmas. And what could be better than a children's story for christmas,
right? So I start off with Kaminas first adventure. This story was previously
unreleased. It only existed as a gift for my niece. Additionally I wanted to
cover more world building ground.

---

## Kamina and the Water Spirits

Kamina is a girl full of curiosity and imagination. Every now and then she
stumbles into adventures and problems that she moves with brave moves and some
special tricks from her mind. This is her first adventure, where she visits a
fantastic but endangered world under water.

==> storylines/kamina-1

## THe Kret: Profile of an Alien Race

Last time, I introduced a world building concept on how to visit other worlds.
And now look that these pioneers fond, ab alien race. But also this has a twist.
So this worldbuilding also became an exercise in how our own world works.

==> storylines/kret

## Other Posts

==> posts/transspace-tales/01-intro

==> posts/tropes/06-counting

## The Next Editions

I'd like to change the concept of the editions a bit again. My publications of
texts and short stories will concentrate on single stories again and will come
with the full swing like cover art, proper editing and probably also an ebook
edition to read on your favourite reader.

The magazine will most likely rather act as an anthology that binds items of the
same topic together. So it's a bit unclear how and when the next oe will come.
Most likely, it will cover all of my world building posts into one edition. But
I'm not sure yet.

## Further Reads

I can recommend more of my fictional posts aka short stories for now:

==> storylines/operator

==> storylines/goliath

==> storylines/vlad

## Previous Editions

Do you want to give the first editions another read? Here's your way-back
machine

==> editions/1

==> editions/2
