---
title: Flashes vs Pixelfed
category: Social Networks
description:
  I've made an experiment. I ran the two Instagram alternatives Pixelfed and
  Flashes (Bluesky) against each other.
date: 2025-06-25
colorSpace: cyan
tags:
  - Meetup
  - Social Networks
  - AT Protocol
  - Activity Pub
  - Communities
  - Pitch
  - Fediverse
  - Content Federation
---

I started an experiment. I wanted to compare the two new federated alternatives
to instagram when it comes to image sharing. Contender one is the fediverse
candidate **Pixelfed**. Contender two is Bluesky with the new view on images
called **Flashes**.

The experiment was not really scientifically correct green fieldish. I used my
Pixelfed account that was about three years old already, but rather small. I
started with 44 followers. And on the other side I used my default Bluesky
account which also was not heavily used before coming in at 30 followers.
Although it looks more neutral, I have to add that I also interact with other
types of content with this account, which could lead to some additional follows
through unrelated traffic.

So take the results and findings with a grain of salt. As usual, the experiment
was mainly for mysef to find out, which platform to pick for myself. And I
myself don't have the ambition to become famous with my photos. Everything is
more like an observation rather than classic measurements. But I found the
results interesting anyway.

The experiment itself is easy to explain. I regularly posted photos of my back
catalog from the areas Architecture, Landscape and Macro covering significantly
different varieties of styles.

10 images in sum, all of them properly marked up with suitable hashtags (~10 per
image) and alt texts (created by ChatGPT as I’m lazy) - identical on both
platforms, of course. And here they are for reference:

After posting, I interacted with the 5 most specific hashtags. I looked at 5
other images under that and liked them to promote a visit on my profile. That’s
5 x 5 or 25 likes per post. During that time I explicitly did not start to
follow any other artists myself.

## Findings: Usability

The clear winner is Flashes/Bluesky.

Sometimes I only saw a blurred mess instead of images in Pixelfed. That
ecosystem clearly has a problem with caching/performance and probably has no
idea what a CDN is. Downside for Flashes is that there is only an app and not a
web application, so on the desktop, I had to use Bluesky itself, which does not
offer a specialised browsing experience for photography.

Overall I wish, the clients would distinguish themselves more from Instagram and
would use more bold and unique UX ideas. How about a full screen swiping
experience, for example?

## Findings: Reach

Here, the winner appears to be Pixelfed.

In average, the images achieved 50% more likes than on Bluesky. 5 received more
likes, three were roughly on par and only 2 got more likes on Bluesky (so
5:4:2). Two Architecture photos on Pixelfed went “viral” with 10+ reposts.
Generally reposting is the essence of reach and it’s not done very often with
images.

Therefore the development over time is also not really given on both platforms.
You post for the moment. After the image shows up on the feed for the first -
let’s say - 7 days, the likes are increasing. Later on they stagnate. When an
image is re-shared, it appears again in some feeds. Bluesky has next to zero
re-shares, which explains the lower reach. But at least the retention on Bluesky
seems a bit better, the reactions lasted longer.

## Findings: Image Quality

Instagram’s actual content is flooded with trash in the meantime. Additionally,
ads are all over the place and video dominates. The good thing about the
federated alternatives is that there are no influencers that want to sell you
something yet. And especially there are no ads. Plus points for both platforms.

I like to skim through cool photography, travel impressions from all over the
world, phantastic architecture and art pieces as well as stunning street
photography. And on top probably a handful of memes and pet photos. That would
be my wishlist for a feed.

In order to check that, I conducted a second experiment. I voted 5 x 30 images
on each platform on a scale from 1 to 10. 5 times means on fice different days
during the last weeks. For Pixelfed, I went through the default home feed and
for Bluesky, I used the Photography feed, because of the multi-purpose character
of the platform.

In that case Bluseky turned out to be the winner with an average of 5.2 vs 4.4

## Findings: Region

Bluesky in general has a strong American bias

# Appendix: Posted Images

==> <item> images/2025/2025-04-06-cornwall

==> <item> images/2025/2025-04-08-fly

==> <item> images/2025/2025-04-11-l-hemisferic

==> <item> images/2025/2025-04-16-spo

==> <item> images/2025/2025-04-21-amenra

==> <item> images/2025/2025-04-28-mushrooms

==> <item> images/2025/2025-05-02-subway

==> <item> images/2025/2025-05-06-sheep

==> <item> images/2025/2025-05-14-metropolparasol

==> <item> images/2025/2025-05-16-gibraltar
