---
name: The Guillorys
slug: the-guillorys
description:
  We are guests at an extraordinary family of mice in theire residence in New
  Orleans, the Guillorys. What's so special about them, you ask? Well, some of
  them have super powers.
color: '#79857A'
image: the-guillorys
language: de
languageRelated: the-guillorys/de
unfinished: true
type: Children's Story
start: 2023-03-27
end: 2023-08-01
related:
  - kamina-2
  - asimov
tags:
  - Mice
  - Super Hero
  - For Children
  - Fantasy
---

_Louis_

Hello everyone, I'm Louis Guillory, Loo-Eee Gee-Yoo-Ree, that's how you
pronounce it. My grannie said, it's french, but my family lives here in New
Orleans. Our ancestors were great sailors and explorers from Europe. I'd also
like to see the world someday, but mom didn't let me out of the house yet.

Woah, but here in the house there is already so much to discover. Our family
alone is huge. My grannie, my grandpa and his father, the wise Dr. Guillory live
with us. I have nine siblings and at least as many uncles and aunts and
countless cousins. Many of them live here in Mansion, our home. And there are
also our neighbours, the Landrys and not to forget the evil Fontenots, who own
the bar.

Another woah, I almost forgot to mention the most important thing. I am a
teenage mouse. Well, that's not the important thing, that's normal, I guess. But
yesterday, I have found out that I can fly. I was hovering, I swear.

_Seraphine_

Good morning, my name is Seraphine Guillory. I'd like to talk about my family
and things. At the moment, I'm so annoyed by my brothers. I have eleven
siblings, most of them are nice. Fleur for example is so cool. Some of them are
still babies. But Louis and Remy are pranking the others all the time.
Troublemakers, that's what they are.

Whatever. Yesterday I found out something strange. I stood in front of the
mirror shard in my little alcove and - I swear - I was half transparent. I could
see the wall behind me. It was just a second at first.

I tried to concentrate and after a while, I could control it. Now I can become
invisible whenever I want. Isn't that great? I can go wherever I want without
being seen.

But I promised myself that I will use my power only for good things. Not like my
nasty brothers would do it. Speaking of which, now I have an advantage. I think,
I should find out more about their plans.

_Remy_

Hi, my name is Remy. Remy Guillory. Louis is my older brother and my best
friend. We spend every minute together. It never gets boring, I can assure you.
But today strange things happened and in the end, we couldn't stop laughing
about it. Believe it or not, we're supermice now.

So here's what happened. We moved around in our hood, the western walls of the
dining room and the spaces above. So while we were running around the ceiling to
reach the outer wall and the window area, my knees went to pudding, I stumbled
and fell at high speed and overturned three times. Woah, what a stunt. It was so
cool.

Then Louis pulled my legs and they became longer and longer. They were elastic.
My body, too. "Hold on to that nail", he said and then he pulled more until I
was three times as large as normal. Long story short, I am elastic now whenever
I want.

Later on, Louis showed me that he could fly. We have superpowers, how epic is
that?

---

Seraphine knew that her two brothers were up to no good and decided to use her
new talent to observe them. She wanted to find out what they were planning. So
she made herself invisible and sneaked into a space in the wall, where they
usually hang out.

She sneaked into the space, climbed some of the bars as silent as possible and
concentrated on here invisibility. If she had lost her focus, she found out, she
would have become half transparent like a ghost.

There they were. She could stand right next to them going unnoticed. But what
she saw next was a surprise. Louis was hovering some centimeters above the
ground. And Remy's belly was twice as long as normal and much thinner. She
couldn't hold focus again.

"What?", started Remy to stutter. "Louis, look, a ghost ..."

"What the cat is going on?", said all three almost simultaneously.

Then they moved around each other. Louis also looked from the top. Remy bent
himself towards Seraphine while she flickered between solid, transparent and
invisible.

---

Next Chapter
