---
name: Kamina and the Dragonfly Ship
slug: kamina-2
description:
  Little Kamina is always drawn into phantastic adventures. This time she jumps
  into a steampunk world with a lot of surprises.
color: '#BD7E84'
language: en
languageRelated: kamina-2/de
unfinished: true
type: Children's Story
start: 2023-01-11
end: 2023-07-17
related:
  - asimov
  - the-guillorys
tags:
  - Kamina
  - Steampunk
  - Fantasy
  - For Children
---

Kamina was eleven. Her parents always told her that she had an exuberant
imagination. They didn't believe her that she permanently fell into holes or
spoke with rabbits and found herself in other worlds for another great
adventure. She doesn't dream these things.

This time it was the mirror in her room, the one that she looked into thousands
of times before. But that day, her own reflection looked differently. She didn't
know exactly what it was. It was still her. She saw her freckles, her earrings,
the ones that her granny gave her, and her hair. But wait. Her hair was
different. It had the same colour, but it was not open. It was straightened with
clasps. And she suddenly had strange sunglasses on her head and a hat appeared
in the mirror. She never wore hats. But it looked beautiful. Just not out of
this world.

It seemed like an adventure was calling again. She did the first thing that came
into her mind. She touched the mirror and her finger sank in like it was a water
surface.

---

Kamina was a brave girl and she loved adventures. So she made one step forward
through the mirror. A wind blew on her face. That was her first sensation. She
still had her eyes closed. When she opened them, the impression was
overwhelming. She stood on the docks of a harbour.

She turned around to the city line. There were magnificent office buildings in
the front row, that looked some hundred years old. Behind that, she saw the
gigantic dome of a church and an even bigger church tower. But this one didn't
look at all like the pointed steeples she knew. There was a big plateau on top.
As she looked around, she saw seven or eight of these. Some nearer, some further
away.

But the most astonishing impression came from the sky around that huge tower.
There were dozens of - she had to take a more concentrated look - airships
flying around. Brass and silver steamships that had wings like dragonflies.

She turned to the quay again and saw a sign. "Welcome to Etheria", it said.

---

From far away, Kamina saw the strange form of a docked ship. She had to look at
it, so she walked around the harbour quays into its direction. As soon as she
stood in front, she knew what it was - one of the airships that looked like a
dragonfly. The body was formed entirely like a regular ship and it was swimming.
But two folded mechanic wings came out of its side and spanned the full length
of the vessel.

She walked from aft to bow and had a look at all the ornaments and golden
decorations on the otherwise dark body. Next to the nose, she saw the name tag
in squiggly letters. The Phoenix. And the figurehead was a beautiful bird that
came out of a cloud.

In the middle area, there were workers loading the ship using strange vehicles
with loud and dirty steam motors. One of them was standing and monitoring the
others. That must have been the boss.

"Hey girl", he yelled. "What do you think you're doing here?"

Kamina was very good at doing an innocent face.

---

Kamina was hanging around for another while. She found a place some meters away
from the boarding and loading zone and watched the seamen do their work. Then
the hectic bustle stopped and nobody was seen anymore. Plank and entrance were
unattended.

She knew that she had to do it. She had stumbled into all of her previous
adventures through her gut feeling. So Kamina sneaked into the Phoenix.

The loading deck was meant for work and storage, so it was quite dirty and there
were no ornaments or even paint on the walls. Instead, she saw ropes and chains
every meter to fixate the freight. Still, there was nobody in the hallways.

She found a staircase that went upwards and there they were again, ornaments and
the typical dark grey and golden look. She took it and apparently landed in the
cabin area. Somebody from the crew turned around a corner about ten meters away.
She quickly sneaked into one of the cabins and took a breath.

Then the airship started to shake.

---

Kamina took a look outside the porthole of the cabin and saw that the peer
became smaller and smaller every second. They had been lifting off. They were
flying. She looked around and saw the gigantic dragonfly wings moving up and
down fast. But they almost didn't make any noise. There was just the shaking and
the groaning of the wood.

She dared to open the door and go outside again. The aisle was empty. What
should happen? She was on the airship and couldn't be thrown out. So she could
as well be brave and say hello to the crew. Kamina took the stairs.

Every floor looked a bit more fancy and beautiful than the previous one. But the
fourth was a piece of perfect craftsmanship. With amazement, she touched the
beautifully carved wall sculptures.

"Who in Neptune's name are you?", someone asked suddenly from behind.

"And who are you?", was the first thing that came to Kamina's mind.

"I, little girl, am Sir Tesla, captain of the Phoenix", and to one of the
seamen, he said, "Take her".

---

Two tall guys grabbed Kamina and carried her downstairs again into a rather dark
and dirty deck. They opened a metal door to the brig and threw her in. How rude.
But as a last gift, Kamina could scratch the seaman's arm with her pointed
fingernails. Served him right.

The dark room had only one small barred porthole. She sat down in one of the
dirty corners when she heard a whispering from the neighbour cabin.

"Hello, is there anybody?", someone said. It was the voice of a boy, Kamina
guessed.

"Wo are you?", she asked with self-confidence as if she was the captain and not
the prisoner.

"Luke. I'm Luke, the kitchen boy."

"Why are you here?", Kamina wanted to know.

"I was too slow at peeling potatoes", Luke answered.

"Oh. They are so rude on this ship, aren't they? We have to get out of here. Do
you know a way?"

"Out of the brig? What do you think? Who are you and what makes you think, you
could escape from this hole?"

"Hmm, I know some tricks", Kamina answered.

---

Kamina's plan involved that sooner or later someone had to come and bring them
something to eat and some water. They had to wait. So they could talk and Kamina
was able to find out more about this world.

Luke said that their beautiful city Etheria was the stronghold of the rebels and
that they were fighting a dark tyrant. Luke called him the Iron Baron. All the
cities and harbours around Etheria are ruled and suppressed by him. The Phoenix
and its crew are constantly taking part in raids against the Iron Baron's
forces.

They were still in the air when Kamina heard a crash followed by heavy shakes.
She couldn't even sit anymore. Probably they were in a battle now. But they
couldn't see anything outside the small bull's eye.

In a mixture of fear and bravery, Kamina and Luke first looked at each other and
then to the door of the brig, that sprang open. They took their chance and
sneaked out. No tricks needed. But Kamina didn't know whether that was good or
bad

---

The airship was still shaking and its movement threw them against the left and
right walls while they were trying to cross the hallway to reach the stairs.
They had to get a better view of the outside. What was happening?

Below deck, they didn’t see anybody. Luke said that everybody would be at their
battle station. About three floors upstairs, they saw the first people, gunners
in black clothes with rather strange hats. It was the deck with the first row of
cannons. There were hectic movements. Some of them carried heavy iron balls
around. But also everything seemed to be coordinated like a choreography.

Kamina had to watch for some seconds, but Luke pulled her further. When they
arrived at the next deck, Kamina immediately froze. There. There was a hole in
the wall that shouldn’t have been there. She could look outside. One of the
baron's cannonballs must have struck the Phoenix in here. Still frozen, she
stares through that hole and saw one of the opponent’s ships on the outside. One
of the nasty-looking seamen on the other airship looked over and met her eye for
a second.

That was the point where she quickly woke up again. Her mood turned from afraid
to angry. She grabbed Luke by the hand.

“We have to do something”, she shouted out to him.

“What do you mean?”, he answered.

“You’ll see …”

---

Kamina observed through the hole in the wall how the other airship navigated. It
turned its nose more and more towards the Phoenix. It was also flying at exactly
the right height. Just one more second. Wait for it! Now!

Luke still didn’t get what was going on. As Kamina started to run, he had to
follow. She pulled him until he also started to run as fast as he could. They
ran along the aisle towards the hole. The timing was almost perfect. At the
point in time they jumped, the huge figurehead on the ship’s bow - a gigantic
bird of prey with huge wings - showed up right in front of them.

Time seemed to stand still for a moment while they were flying through the air.
It was only a meter or so but for Luke, it seemed much more.

Kamina could grab one of the wings of the figurehead, but she had to let Luke go
to stabilize herself. But Luke found his way to the other wing. He could not
find a hold, but - good luck - his suspenders got caught in the large curved
beak of the bird. So he was hanging there safely, dangling dozens of meters
above the blue sea.

As dangerous as the situation had been, the scene looked funny like slapstick
and Kamina couldn’t help but laugh. After she regained her composure, Luke made
sure to get a proper hold on his side of the bird and Kamina unstrapped his
braces to get him free. Luke still looked baffled and embarrassed. And just then
he realized what just happened. They were on the ship of the enemy.

“OK. That worked out”, said Kamina as if it were the easiest thing to do every
day before breakfast, while Luke was still trying to breathe.

“But what could we do here?”, she added. “ Let’s find a hiding spot first. We
must not be seen.”

<!--

City in Victory

Return

Dinner
-->
