---
name: The Phoenix
year: 2023
week: 6
day: 1
---

From far away, Kamina saw the strange form of a docked ship. She had to look at
it, so she walked around the harbour quays into its direction. As soon as she
stood in front, she knew what it was - one of the airships that looked like a
dragonfly. The body was formed entirely like a regular ship and it was swimming.
But two folded mechanic wings came out of its side and spanned the full length
of the vessel.

She walked from aft to bow and had a look at all the ornaments and golden
decorations on the otherwise dark body. Next to the nose, she saw the name tag
in squiggly letters. The Phoenix. And the figurehead was a beautiful bird that
came out of a cloud.

In the middle area, there were workers loading the ship using strange vehicles
with loud and dirty steam motors. One of them was standing and monitoring the
others. That must have been the boss.

"Hey girl", he yelled. "What do you think you're doing here?"

Kamina was very good at doing an innocent face.

## ðŸ‡©ðŸ‡ª German Version

Aus der Ferne sah Kamina die seltsame Form eines angedockten Schiffes. Sie
musste es sich ansehen also ging sie um die Hafenkais herum in seine Richtung.
Sobald sie davor stand, wusste sie, was es war - eines der Luftschiffe, die wie
Libellen aussahen. Der Rumpf war wie ein normales Schiff geformt, und es
schwamm. Aber zwei gefaltete mechanische FlÃ¼gel kamen an der Seite heraus und
Ã¼berspannten die gesamte LÃ¤nge des Schiffes.

Sie ging vom Heck zum Bug und betrachtete all die Ornamente und goldenen
Verzierungen auf dem ansonsten dunklen KÃ¶rper. Neben der Nase sah sie das
Namensschild in verschnÃ¶rkelten Buchstaben. Die PhÃ¶nix. Und die Galionsfigur war
ein wunderschÃ¶ner Vogel, der aus einer Wolke kam.

Im mittleren Bereich liefen Arbeiter herum, die das Schiff mit seltsamen
seltsamen Fahrzeugen mit lauten und schmutzigen Dampfmotoren beluden. Einer von
ihnen stand da und Ã¼berwachte die anderen. Das muss der Chef gewesen sein.

"Hey MÃ¤dchen", rief er. "Was glaubst du, was du hier tust?"

Kamina war sehr gut darin, ein unschuldiges Gesicht zu machen.
