---
name: Boarding
year: 2023
week: 9
day: 3
---

Kamina was hanging around for another while. She found a place some meters away
from the boarding and loading zone and watched the seamen do their work. Then
the hectic bustle stopped and nobody was seen anymore. Plank and entrance were
unattended.

She knew that she had to do it. She had stumbled into all of her previous
adventures through her gut feeling. So Kamina sneaked into the Phoenix.

The loading deck was meant for work and storage, so it was quite dirty and there
were no ornaments or even paint on the walls. Instead, she saw ropes and chains
every meter to fixate the freight. Still, there was nobody in the hallways.

She found a staircase that went upwards and there they were again, ornaments and
the typical dark grey and golden look. She took it and apparently landed in the
cabin area. Somebody from the crew turned around a corner about ten meters away.
She quickly sneaked into one of the cabins and took a breath.

Then the airship started to shake.

## ğŸ‡©ğŸ‡ª German Version: An Bord

Kamina hing noch eine Weile herum. Sie fand einen Platz einige Meter entfernt
von der Einsteige- und Ladezone und beobachtete die Seeleute bei ihrer Arbeit.
Dann hÃ¶rte die hektische Betriebsamkeit auf und niemand war mehr zu sehen.
Planke und Eingang waren unbewacht.

Sie wusste, dass sie es tun musste. In all ihre bisherigen Abenteuer war sie
durch ihr BauchgefÃ¼hl gestolpert. Also schlich sich Kamina in die Phoenix.

Das Ladedeck war fÃ¼r Arbeit und Lager gedacht, daher war es ziemlich schmutzig
und es gab es gab keine Verzierungen oder gar Farbe an den WÃ¤nden. Stattdessen
sah sie Seile und Ketten im Abstand von etwa einem Meter an den WÃ¤nden, um die
Fracht zu befestigen. Trotzdem war niemand in den GÃ¤ngen zu sehen.

Sie fand eine Treppe, die nach oben fÃ¼hrte, und da waren sie wieder, die
Ornamente und das typische dunkelgraue und goldene Aussehen. Sie ging hoch und
landete offenbar im Kabinenbereich. In etwa zehn Metern Entfernung bog jemand
von der Besatzung um eine Ecke. Schnell schlich sie sich in eine der Kabinen und
holte kurz Luft.

Dann begann das Luftschiff zu schaukeln.
