---
name: Let's escape
year: 2023
week: 21
day: 4
---

Kamina's plan involved that sooner or later someone had to come and bring them
something to eat and some water. They had to wait. So they could talk and Kamina
was able to find out more about this world.

Luke said that their beautiful city Etheria was the stronghold of the rebels and
that they were fighting a dark tyrant. Luke called him the Iron Baron. All the
cities and harbours around Etheria are ruled and suppressed by him. The Phoenix
and its crew are constantly taking part in raids against the Iron Baron's
forces.

They were still in the air when Kamina heard a crash followed by heavy shakes.
She couldn't even sit anymore. Probably they were in a battle now. But they
couldn't see anything outside the small bull's eye.

In a mixture of fear and bravery, Kamina and Luke first looked at each other and
then to the door of the brig, that sprang open. They took their chance and
sneaked out. No tricks needed. But Kamina didn't know whether that was good or
bad.

## ğŸ‡©ğŸ‡ª German Version - Lass uns abhauen

Kaminas Plan sah vor, dass frÃ¼her oder spÃ¤ter jemand kommen und ihnen etwas zu
essen und etwas Wasser bringen wÃ¼rde. Sie mussten warten. So konnten sie sich
etwas unterhalten und Kamina konnte mehr Ã¼ber diese Welt herausfinden.

Luke erzÃ¤hlte, dass ihre schÃ¶ne Stadt Etheria die Hochburg der Rebellen war und
dass sie gegen einen dunklen Tyrannen kÃ¤mpften. Luke nannte ihn den Eisernen
Baron. Alle StÃ¤dte und HÃ¤fen um Etheria werden von ihm beherrscht und
unterdrÃ¼ckt. Die Phoenix und ihre Besatzung nahmen stÃ¤ndig an ÃœberfÃ¤llen gegen
die StreitkrÃ¤fte des Eisernen Barons teil.

Sie waren noch in der Luft, als Kamina ein Krachen hÃ¶rte, gefolgt von heftigen
ErschÃ¼tterungen. Sie konnte nicht einmal mehr sitzen. Wahrscheinlich befanden
sie sich jetzt in einer Schlacht. Aber durch das kleine Bullauge konnten sie
nichts sehen.

In einer Mischung aus Angst und Mut sahen Kamina und Luke erst einander an und
dann zur TÃ¼r der Brigg, die aufsgesprungen war. Sie nutzten ihre Chance und
schlichen sich hinaus. Keine Tricks nÃ¶tig. Aber Kamina wusste nicht, ob das gut
oder schlecht war.
