---
title: About Octahedron World
superTitle: Author, Motivation and Used Technology
---

## Who am I?

My name is Matthias. I am a Software Engineer and Team Lead. But since I was a
teen, I have been thinking of stories and building other worlds in my head.
Later, I have written them down, forgot them, found them again, added layers of
ideas to them and so on. I am several decades older and still, from time to
time, I have ideas popping up. So there's plenty of material.

## What should I do with all that?

Some years ago, one of these ideas grew so large that it had to be channelled
into a novel. And I have even managed to write and publish it together with my
beloved wife. It is a fantasy novel written in German and called "Die
Hermetiker". And I'm sure I will place one or the other hint on these pages,
probably even a sample chapter.

But there were many other stories ranging from space opera over cyberpunk to
researched science facts. For those, I haven't found a suitable channel yet.
I've tried many formats. As a developer, it's so easy to get lost in creating
the best possible blog and forgetting about the content. And so I've tried many
variants all bound to conditions like "at least one complete article per week".
And I never managed to deliver that much and lost track after a while.

## Byte Sized Fiction

Then came the Twitter crisis. Elon Musk wnated to buy Twitter. And we tried out
other things like [Mastodon](https://mstdn.social/@aithir). This was the
opportunity for a reboot and the creation of a purposeful account.

The format was given. The maximum was 1.000 characters per toot. So I sliced my
content into small 150-word-pieces and published the material in series that I
called [storylines](/storylines).

Because you might lose the overview after some time, I came back to the original
plan of creating a website for it. But this time with the difference that there
is quite some content already.

And there is a routine pace of **four contributions per week**. Amazing. And not
even enough when I look at my pleasure to write, compress words and create a
little bit of suspense every day.

## What now?

But that was not the end. Sooner or later, the concept had to reach its creative
limits and the willingnes to go beyond this mere artificial constraint got
bigger and bigger. The latest iteration therefore goes back to publishing full
short stories in a monthly magazine format. But you can still see them grow. I
will be live with all the steps inbetween. Whenever a new chapter or paragraph
will be available, the site will be updated.

## Nitty Gritty

Want some tech facts about the portal? I'm using **Next.JS** and deploying
everything on **Vercel**. For now, I'm on the free tier. But if traffic rises,
I'd love to pay some cents for the maintenance. I don't want ads on the
platform. The minimal and bespoke tracking is done via Mixpanel (I wanted to
move away from Google Analytics).

The latest iteration is created with next.js's app router. For this, I had to
rewrite all styles to Tailwind.

Every storyline comes with its signature image and colour theme. Most of the
images come from the **midjourney** AI.

## Have Fun

The first purpose of my texts is to entertain myself during writing. But I also
appreciate feedback and discussion. How do you like it? Would you want something
changed? Are you curious about what is coming next?

I'm still thinking of a direct feedback loop inside the page. I'd love to hear
your thoughts. But for now, you can [mail me](mailto:mr@octahedron.world), or
reach me via [Mastodon](https://mstdn.social/@aithir),
[Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/octahedron.bsky.social) or
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/matzn/).

But of course, I also want you to have some fun with my
texts.[ Why don't you dive into it?](/)
